
1. Wilson and the agile team he belongs to are having a discussion regarding 'stakeholder management.' Why is 'stakeholder management' an important topic of conversation for an agile team?	
A. Because having engaged stakeholders that actively participate is crucial for success.
B. Because without assigning tasks and duties to stakeholders scope creep is inevitable.
C. Because managing the requirements of stakeholders is essential to keep the product backlog from expanding.
D. Because preventing the stakeholders from interfering with developers helps improve velocity.
Answer: A 
Explanation:  Stakeholder management is a growing topic area within strategic management that brings awareness to the importance of managing stakeholders (i.e., facilitating active participation of stakeholders and fostering a strong collaborative environment) for a project's success. Stakeholder management is typically defined in the context of guiding principles and values. R. E. Freeman's 'Managing for Stakeholders' includes 10 principles: 1) Stakeholder interests need to go together over time. 2) We need a philosophy of volunteerism – to engage stakeholders and manage relationships ourselves rather than leave it to government. 3) We need to find solutions to issues that satisfy multiple stakeholders simultaneously. 4) Everything that we do serves stakeholders. We never trade off the interests of one versus the other continuously over time. 5) We act with purpose that fulfills our commitment to stakeholders. We act with aspiration towards fulfilling our dreams and theirs. 6) We need intensive communication and dialogue with stakeholders – not just those who are friendly. 7)Stakeholders consist of real people with names and faces and children. They are complex. 8)We need to generalize the marketing approach. 9) We engage with both primary and secondary stakeholders. 10) We constantly monitor and redesign processes to make them better serve our stakeholders. Because stakeholder involvement is critical for the success of a project, where projects without active participation from stakeholders are prone to failure, stakeholder management should be a topic that every agile team knows well. [The Art of Agile Development. James Shore.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]

2. Why is the presence of a product owner necessary when playing a game of planning poker?	
A. Because the product owner provides an overview of user stories and answers any questions the development team may have.
B. Because the product owner must report any outliers (i.e., extremely long or short estimates) on the risk register.
C. Because the product owner must relay to the customer the range of story points assigned to each user story.
D. Because the product owner must moderate the planning poker session.
Answer: A 
Explanation:  Planning poker is based upon the wideband Delphi estimation technique. It is a consensus-based technique for estimating effort. Sometimes called scrum poker, it is a technique for a relative estimation of effort, typically in story points, to develop a user story. At a planning poker meeting, each estimator is given an identical deck of planning poker cards with a wide range of values. The Fibonacci sequence is often used for values for planning poker (i.e., 0, 1, 1, 2, 3, 5,8,etc.); another common sequence is (question mark, 0, 1/2, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 20, 40, and 100). A planning poker meeting works as follows: 1) a moderator, not estimating, facilitates the meeting. 2) the product owner/manager provides a short overview of the user story and answers clarifying questions posed by the developers. Typically the product owner does not vote. 3) Each estimator selects an estimate of work effort by selecting a card, 4) Once everyone has selected a card, everyone overturns their card concurrently, 5) Estimators with high and low estimates are given a chance to defend positions. 6) The process repeats until there is consensus. The developer who owns the user story is typically given higher credence. [Agile Estimating and Planning. Mike Cohn.] [Agile estimation]

3. Patty is explaining the importance of an agile team being empowered. What does an empowered team mean?	
A. A team that is self-organizing and involves the entire team and customer or user to blaze a forward trail and solve problems.
B. A team that is management-oriented and focused solely on meeting scope, cost, and schedule constraints.
C. A team that is capable of exceeding sustainable development velocities in "power" iterations to meet backlog goals.
D. A team that solves problems through the use of market research.
Answer: A 
Explanation:  Empowered teams - ones that are self-organizing and know how to solve problems with minimal management involvement - are a cornerstone of the agile methodology. This is the antithesis to the classic viewpoint of the traditional project manager who is seen as someone that controls all decisions and delegates tasks to a team with little feedback. An agile team must include all members and stakeholders to make decisions, and make decisions expediently. Because it is essential that the user/customer be involved with development, it is encouraged that the user/customer is closely integrated with the agile team with collocation/on-site support being ideal. An agile team feels empowered when it collectively assumes responsibility for the delivery of the product (i.e., taking ownership). [Coaching Agile Teams. Lyssa Adkins.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]

4. Lila, as project leader, has been discussing the importance of 'stakeholder management' with her team. Why is stakeholder management so important?	
A. Because without participation from stakeholders, the chances of a successful project are optimized.
B. Because without participation from stakeholders, the team can focus on providing a valuable product that adheres to the initial project plan.
C. Because without stakeholder management, stakeholders will inevitably interfere with necessary product development.
D. Because without active participation from stakeholders, the chances of a successful project are reduced.
Answer: D 
Explanation:  Stakeholder management is a growing topic area within strategic management that brings awareness to the importance of managing stakeholders (i.e., facilitating active participation of stakeholders and fostering a strong collaborative environment) for a project's success. Stakeholder management is typically defined in the context of guiding principles and values. R. E. Freeman's 'Managing for Stakeholders' includes 10 principles: 1) Stakeholder interests need to go together over time. 2) We need a philosophy of volunteerism – to engage stakeholders and manage relationships ourselves rather than leave it to government. 3) We need to find solutions to issues that satisfy multiple stakeholders simultaneously. 4) Everything that we do serves stakeholders. We never trade off the interests of one versus the other continuously over time. 5) We act with purpose that fulfills our commitment to stakeholders. We act with aspiration towards fulfilling our dreams and theirs. 6) We need intensive communication and dialogue with stakeholders – not just those who are friendly. 7)Stakeholders consist of real people with names and faces and children. They are complex. 8)We need to generalize the marketing approach. 9) We engage with both primary and secondary stakeholders. 10) We constantly monitor and redesign processes to make them better serve our stakeholders. Because stakeholder involvement is critical for the success of a project, where projects without active participation from stakeholders are prone to failure, stakeholder management should be a topic that every agile team knows well. [The Art of Agile Development. James Shore.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]

5. Marge as a product owner believes steadfastly in the feature prioritization. Why might Marge believe in prioritization?	
A. Because without prioritization a team would not know how prepare for retrospective workshops.
B. Because without prioritization a team would not know how to gauge unit testing efforts.
C. Because without prioritization a team would not know how to estimate user story sizes.
D. Because without prioritization a team would not know in what order to develop user stories in order to optimize value delivered to the customer.
Answer: D 
Explanation:  An agile team must always face the prioritization of product features in its product backlog. From release planning to iteration planning, an agile team must prioritize the user stories/ features of its product to ensure that high-quality and high-value features are developed first to help facilitate an optimized and early return on investment (ROI). An agile team typically prioritizes requirements or user stories/features in terms of relative value and risk; value is defined by the customer (i.e., customer-value prioritization). Two common methods to prioritize product features are: MoSCoW and Kano. The MoSCoW method categorizes features into 'Must have,' 'Should have,' 'Could have,' and 'Would have' features. The Kano method categorizes features into 'Must haves (threshold),' 'Dissatisfiers,' 'Satisfiers,' and 'Delighters.' Must haves are features that are requisite. Dissatisfiers are features that adversely impact perceived value and should be eliminated. 'Satisfiers' are features that increase perceived value linearly, where the more you add the more the customer is pleased, but are not required, and 'Delighters' are features that increase perceived value exponentially to please the customer. To prioritize features based on risk, a risk-to-value matrix can be used. A risk-to-value matrix has four quadrants, with the horizontal axis having low and high value, and the vertical axis having low and high risk. User stories are assigned to one of the four categories/quadrants: low-value, low-risk; low-value, high-risk; high-value, low-risk; high-value, high-risk. A cost-to-value matrix can also be made in this manner. All prioritization in agile is 'relative,' meaning that the priority of one user story is relative to other user stories and not prioritized on a fixed scale. [Lean-Agile Software Development: Achieving Enterprise Agility. Alan Shalloway, Guy Beaver, James R. Trott.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]

6. Which of the following responses is NOT a part of active listening?	
A. Taking notes.
B. Being present and focusing your attention on the speaker.
C. Talking loudly.
D. Being silent.
Answer: C 
Explanation:  One communication technique to reduce misunderstanding and miscommunication is active listening. A well run agile project necessitates both good listeners and communicators, active listening helps work towards both of these necessities. The basics of active listening include: 1) Being present and focusing your attention on the speaker. 2) Taking notes instead of interrupting. 3) Paraphrasing to confirm and review what you have heard. 4) Summarizing the conversation once it has concluded for posterity. Using open ended questions, good body language, and silence can help improve listening skills. [Coaching Agile Teams. Lyssa Adkins.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]

7. Select a method used in agile for the purpose of prioritization.	
A. Cannon
B. WIDETOM
C. WoCSoM
D. Kano
Answer: D 
Explanation:  An agile team must always face the prioritization of product features in its product backlog. From release planning to iteration planning, an agile team must prioritize the user stories/ features of its product to ensure that high-quality and high-value features are developed first to help facilitate an optimized and early return on investment (ROI). An agile team typically prioritizes requirements or user stories/features in terms of relative value and risk; value is defined by the customer (i.e., customer-value prioritization). Two common methods to prioritize product features are: MoSCoW and Kano. The MoSCoW method categorizes features into 'Must have,' 'Should have,' 'Could have,' and 'Would have' features. The Kano method categorizes features into 'Must haves (threshold),' 'Dissatisfiers,' 'Satisfiers,' and 'Delighters.' Must haves are features that are requisite. Dissatisfiers are features that adversely impact perceived value and should be eliminated. 'Satisfiers' are features that increase perceived value linearly, where the more you add the more the customer is pleased, but are not required, and 'Delighters' are features that increase perceived value exponentially to please the customer. To prioritize features based on risk, a risk-to-value matrix can be used. A risk-to-value matrix has four quadrants, with the horizontal axis having low and high value, and the vertical axis having low and high risk. User stories are assigned to one of the four categories/quadrants: low-value, low-risk; low-value, high-risk; high-value, low-risk; high-value, high-risk. A cost-to-value matrix can also be made in this manner. All prioritization in agile is 'relative,' meaning that the priority of one user story is relative to other user stories and not prioritized on a fixed scale. [Lean-Agile Software Development: Achieving Enterprise Agility. Alan Shalloway, Guy Beaver, James R. Trott.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]

8. Which of the following responses is NOT a part of active listening?	
A. Being present and focusing your attention on the speaker.
B. Closed-ended questions.
C. Being silent.
D. Taking notes.
Answer: B 
Explanation:  One communication technique to reduce misunderstanding and miscommunication is active listening. A well run agile project necessitates both good listeners and communicators, active listening helps work towards both of these necessities. The basics of active listening include: 1) Being present and focusing your attention on the speaker. 2) Taking notes instead of interrupting. 3) Paraphrasing to confirm and review what you have heard. 4) Summarizing the conversation once it has concluded for posterity. Using open ended questions, good body language, and silence can help improve listening skills. [Coaching Agile Teams. Lyssa Adkins.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]

9. Of the following, which is NOT a part of active listening?	
A. Taking notes.
B. Leaving the conversation early.
C. Good body language.
D. Being silent.
Answer: B 
Explanation:  One communication technique to reduce misunderstanding and miscommunication is active listening. A well run agile project necessitates both good listeners and communicators, active listening helps work towards both of these necessities. The basics of active listening include: 1) Being present and focusing your attention on the speaker. 2) Taking notes instead of interrupting. 3) Paraphrasing to confirm and review what you have heard. 4) Summarizing the conversation once it has concluded for posterity. Using open ended questions, good body language, and silence can help improve listening skills. [Coaching Agile Teams. Lyssa Adkins.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]

10. What technology can facilitate some osmotic communication for team members that do NOT share the same workspace?	
A. Instant messaging
B. Near Field Communication
C. None
D. Bluetooth
Answer: A 
Explanation:  Video conferencing and instant messaging are technologies that can provide some level of osmotic communication. [Agile Software Development: The Cooperative Game – 2nd Edition. Alistair Cockburn.] [Communications]

11. An agile team has just estimated the relative value of developing a user story during a game of planning poker. The following scores were played: Bob: 40; Tim: 8; Mark: 1; Ursula: 13; Yvonne: 20. According to the rules of planning poker, which two team members should defend their positions?	
A. Tim and Mark
B. Ursula and Yvonne
C. Bob and Yvonne
D. Bob and Mark
Answer: D 
Explanation:  Planning poker is based upon the wideband Delphi estimation technique. It is a consensus-based technique for estimating effort. Sometimes called scrum poker, it is a technique for a relative estimation of effort, typically in story points, to develop a user story. At a planning poker meeting, each estimator is given an identical deck of planning poker cards with a wide range of values. The Fibonacci sequence is often used for values for planning poker (i.e., 0, 1, 1, 2, 3, 5,8,etc.); another common sequence is (question mark, 0, 1/2, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 20, 40, and 100). A planning poker meeting works as follows: 1) a moderator, not estimating, facilitates the meeting. 2) the product owner/manager provides a short overview of the user story and answers clarifying questions posed by the developers. Typically the product owner does not vote. 3) Each estimator selects an estimate of work effort by selecting a card, 4) Once everyone has selected a card, everyone overturns their card concurrently, 5) Estimators with high and low estimates are given a chance to defend positions. 6) The process repeats until there is consensus. The developer who owns the user story is typically given higher credence. [Agile Estimating and Planning. Mike Cohn.] [Agile estimation]

12. Hillary is using a software development framework adapted specifically for agile that from the unified process (UP). Which framework is Hillary using?	
A. Simple unified process (SUP)
B. Adapted unified process (AdUP)
C. Extreme unified process (EUP)
D. Agile unified process (AUP)

Answer: D 
Explanation:  Agile Unified Process (AUP) is a simplified version of the Unified Process, or UP (UP itself is a more detailed framework for iterative and incremental software development). AUP simplifies UP for the agile framework. AUP projects use four phases: 1) inception, 2) elaboration, 3) construction, and 4) transition. At the end of each short iteration, the team delivers a working product. [Agile Software Development: The Cooperative Game – 2nd Edition. Alistair Cockburn.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 2]

13. Peter's agile team is geographically dispersed throughout the world. What is one factor the team should consider when conducting its business?	
A. Whether or not to consider language differences when communicating.
B. Whether or not to plan an iteration.
C. Whether or not to use a rolling look ahead plan for complex projects.
D. Whether or not to use information radiators.
Answer: A Explanation:  A high-performance agile team is one that is ideally collocated for osmotic communication and face-to-face interaction. However, collocation isn't always feasible in today's multinational environment. For distributed teams, several practices are available to provide the best form of effective communication in the absence of being collocated: team intranet sites, virtual team rooms, and video conferencing over e-mail when possible. Geographic separation, especially on a world-wide scale, causes the team to consider language and cultural differences, and time zone differences. [Agile Software Development: The Cooperative Game – 2nd Edition. Alistair Cockburn.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 3]

14. Feedback techniques are ubiquitous in agile projects. Select the response which lists a feedback technique.	
A. Timeboxing
B. Daily stand-up meeting
C. Process tree
D. Console mapping
Answer: B 
Explanation:  There are several feedback techniques - techniques that facilitate constructive criticism to improve product value and quality - built into the agile process. In the classic definition, feedback is a dynamic process where past information influences the behavior of the same process in the future. Agile feedback techniques include prototyping, simulation, demonstration, evaluations, pair programming, unit testing, continuous integration, daily stand-up meetings, sprint planning. Because agile prides itself on a transparent and collaborative environment, feedback is essentially ubiquitous. [Agile Retrospectives: Making Good Teams Great. Esther Derby, Diana Larsen, Ken Schwaber.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]

15. Which type of risk category is typically given a lower priority when creating the risk-adjusted backlog: a) high-value, high risk or b) low-value, low risk?	
A. Both are equivalent.
B. Low-value, low risk
C. High-value, high risk
D. High-severity, low-likelihood
Answer: B 
Explanation:  A risk-adjusted backlog is a product backlog organized by taking into account risk. Risk can be estimated as the product of severity/consequence and likelihood. User stories can also be positioned on a risk-to-value matrix to help prioritize them in the backlog. The risk-to-value matrix is a chart with four quadrants. Along the horizontal axis is value in ascending order. Along the vertical axis is risk in ascending order. A user story that is high risk and high value is located in the top-right corner. A user story that is low risk and high value is located in the lower-right corner. A user story that is low risk and high value is located in the lower-right corner. A user story that is low risk and low value is located in the lower-left corner. Typically a team will prioritize high-value, low-risk user stories first, followed by high-value, high-risk user stories, followed by low-value, low-risk user stories, followed by low-value, high-risk user stories. [The Art of Agile Development. James Shore.] [Risk management]

16. What is a positive indicator that agile may be appropriate to an organization as a new project methodology?	
A. That the adopting organization values strict and inflexible project management practices.
B. That the adopting organization values hierarchical decision making.
C. That the adopting organization values top-down management.
D. That the adopting organization values trust, collective ownership, and adaptability.
Answer: D 
Explanation:  When considering whether to apply new agile practices, several internal and external factors should be considered. Internal factors include whether the project is developing new processes or products; whether the organization is collaborative and emphasizes trust, adaptability, collective ownership, and has minimal or informal project management processes; the size, location, and skills of the project team. External factors include the industry stability and customer engagement or involvement. Generally, agile is best suited to developing new processes or products for an organization that is collaborative and emphasizes trust, adaptability, collective ownership, and has minimal project management processes by an agile/project team that is relatively small in size, is collocated, and is cross-functional in skill. Additionally, agile is known to succeed in industries that are quickly adapting to disruptive technologies as opposed to industries that are stable and perhaps inflexible to adaptive approaches. And, lastly, the component of customer involvement and engagement cannot be stressed enough; the more participation, the better. [The Art of Agile Development. James Shore.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 3]

17. Consider the following EVM scenario and calculate the SV. The team is on week 30 of a 100 week project. Its BAC is $100,000 and AC is $15,000. The team estimates it is 20% complete overall and has an EV of $20,000.	
A. $20,000
B. ($10,000)
C. $10,000
D. $30,000
Answer: B 
Explanation:  EVM or earned value management is a management technique used to evaluate project performance with respect to cost and schedule. EVM relies on other common financial metrics like Budget At Completion (BAC), Actual Cost (AC), Planned Value (PV), Earned Value (EV), Cost Variance (CV), Schedule Variance (SV), Cost Performance Index (CPI), and Schedule Performance Index (SPI). CV and SV can be converted into performance indicators of CPI and SPI, respectively, and tracked and charted to show progress over time. PV is the planned value of work at a given time in a project; you can calculate it by multiplying the BAC by the ratio of current week/scheduled weeks (e.g., 5 weeks into a 15 week $15,000 project = $5,000 PV). EV is value of work actually completed or earned (e.g., you have completed 50% of the project by week 5 of a 15 week $15,000 project = $7,500 EV). SV is the difference between what a project has earned to date and what it was planned to earn to date (i.e., SV = EV - PV). [Agile Estimating and Planning. Mike Cohn.] [Metrics]

18. Thomas notices that his team just assigned a user story the value of 10 to indicate the relative effort it will take to develop the user story. What is Thomas and his team most likely using to estimate relative user story development effort?	
A. Story coins
B. Story chapters
C. Story marks
D. Story points
Answer: D 
Explanation:  Agile teams typically use story points to estimate the relative size or effort of developing a user story [Agile Estimating and Planning. Mike Cohn.] [Agile estimation]

19. Generally, how is an agile project estimated?	
A. From both a horizontal and vertical dimension
B. From the bottom up
C. From the top down
D. Both from the top down and the bottom up
Answer: C 
Explanation:  When estimating an agile project, a top-down approach is typically used. This involves high-level estimation at first, followed by more detailed estimation. [Agile Estimating and Planning. Mike Cohn.] [Agile estimation]

20. In agile, the "team space" is an important place that should foster effective communication. What is a guideline for promoting such an environment?	
A. Collocation of team members
B. Isolation of team members
C. Rotation of team members
D. Separation of team members by function
Answer: A 
Explanation:  A warm, welcoming environment that promotes effective communication, innovation, and motivated team members is an important aspect to consider when designing team space. Guidelines for a better agile team space include: collocation of team members; reduction of non-essential noise/distractions; dedicated whiteboard and wall space for information radiators; space for the daily stand-up meeting and other meetings; pairing workstations; and other pleasantries like plants and comfortable furniture. [Agile Retrospectives: Making Good Teams Great. Esther Derby, Diana Larsen, Ken Schwaber.] [Communications]

21. As team lead, Xavier is constantly monitoring the effectiveness of communication among his team and stakeholders. What is the knowledge and skill area that deals with communication?	
A. Communications management
B. Command and control
C. Stakeholder analysis
D. Brainstorming
Answer: A 
Explanation:  Effective communication is a cornerstone of agile. Communication is the act of transferring information among various parties. Communications management is a knowledge and skill area of agile that highlights this importance. PMI has several definitions regarding communications management and agile builds on top of these to add its own perspective: 1) Communications Planning: Determining the information and communication needs of the projects stakeholders 2) Information Distribution: Making needed information available to project stakeholders in a timely manner, 3) Performance Reporting: Collecting and distributing performance information. This includes status reporting, progress measurement, and forecasting, and 4) Managing Stakeholders: Managing communications to satisfy the requirements and resolve issues with project stakeholders. From an agile perspective: communication among the team is built into the process and facilitated through collocation, information radiators, daily stand-up meetings, retrospectives etc.; Although it is hoped that the product owner, customer, and user can be heavily involved with the project and also use these communication techniques, a plan for conveying information to stakeholders may be needed if this is not the case. [Agile Software Development: The Cooperative Game – 2nd Edition. Alistair Cockburn.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]
22. If a software product is developed for multiple organizations within one industry, it can be described as:	
A. Broad-spectrum software
B. Narrow-band software
C. Vertical-market software
D. Horizontal-market software
Answer: C 
Explanation:  Vertical-market software includes solutions for many organizations within one industry (e.g., pharmaceutical software). Horizontal-market software includes solutions for many organizations in many industries (e.g., word processing software). [The Art of Agile Development. James Shore.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 2]

23. Jessica, as a certified agile practitioner, believes in the value of 'knowledge sharing.' Which of the following is the best definition of 'knowledge sharing?'	
A. The collaborative sharing of information among all stakeholders and team members to promote a well-informed project environment.
B. The sharing of information on a need-to-know basis.
C. The sharing of information between the product owner and chief programming engineer regarding the adaptability of the development team to implement performance improvement plans.
D. The sharing of information on a just-in-time basis.
Answer: A 
Explanation:  In agile, effective 'knowledge sharing' is a critical factor for success. It involves the near real time communication of key information among all team members and stakeholders. To promote knowledge sharing, agile uses standard practices built into its process, such as using generalized specialists/cross functional teams, self-organizing and self-disciplined teams, collocation, daily stand-up meetings, iteration/sprint planning, release planning, pair programming and pair rotation, project retrospectives/reflection, and on-site customer support. And, of course, the sixth principle of Agile is " The most efficient and effective method of conveying information to and within a development team is face-to-face conversation." In this sense, Agile prefers and encourages collocation for all stakeholders and team members for the simple fact that face-to-face conversation is the best method of communication and, in turn, effective knowledge sharing. [Becoming Agile: …in an imperfect world. Greg Smith, Ahmed Sidky.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]

24. From the following, select a common agile framework/methodology.	
A. Extreme programming (XP)
B. Peer perfect programming (3P)
C. Ultra programming (UP)
D. Paired programming (PP)
Answer: A 
Explanation:  Common frameworks or methodologies used within agile include: scrum, extreme programming (XP), lean software development, crystal, feature driven development (FDD), dynamic systems development method (DSDM), agile unified process (AUP). [Agile Software Development: The Cooperative Game – 2nd Edition. Alistair Cockburn.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 2]

25. Becky and her agile team have just performed decomposition on several user stories and wants to prioritize them. What common technique might she and her team use to prioritize the user stories?	
A. Cost-to-schedule matrix
B. Cost-to-value matrix
C. Cost-to-risk matrix
D. Cost-to-constraint matrix
Answer: B 
Explanation:  In iteration planning, an agile team, collaboratively with the customer, chooses user stories to include for development. Although the user stories are prioritized in the product backlog initially during release planning, an agile team and customer should review prioritization based on progressive elaboration (i.e., gained knowledge and perspective). Prioritization is often based on value and risk and can be performed using the MoSCoW or Kano method and through the use of risk-to-value and cost-to-value matrices. An agile team performs decomposition to subdivide user stories into more manageable tasks so that it may estimate task time. Tasks for an iteration may also be prioritized based on value, similar to how user stories are prioritized. [Lean-Agile Software Development: Achieving Enterprise Agility. Alan Shalloway, Guy Beaver, James R. Trott.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]

26. Perry is explaining the MoSCoW technique which is often used in agile to prioritize user stories. What does the C stand for?	
A. Could disrupt dependencies
B. Could have
C. Cannot have
D. Could do without
Answer: B 
Explanation:  The MoSCoW technique is commonly used in agile to prioritize user stories and create a story map. The MoSCoW technique prioritizes user stories into the following groups in descending order of priority: M - Must have; S - Should have; C - Could have; W - Would have. Must have items are those product features which are absolutely essential to develop. Should have items are product features that are not essential but have significant business value. Could have items are product features that would add some business value. Would have items are product features that have marginal business value. [User Stories Applied: For Agile Software Development. Mike Cohn.] [Agile analysis and design]

27. Bill, as the agile team lead, likes being able to demo the latest iteration of a working product to the customer. His team delivers a demo of the product every two weeks so the customer may provide feedback and perform acceptance. What type of delivery concept provides this type of regular interval feedback that is a cornerstone of agile development?	
A. Iteration delivery
B. Prototype delivery
C. Demo and acceptance delivery
D. Incremental delivery
Answer: D 
Explanation:  A cornerstone of Agile development is 'incremental delivery.' Incremental delivery is the frequent delivery of working products, which are successively improved, to a customer for immediate feedback and acceptance. Typically, a product is delivered at the end of each sprint or iteration for demonstration and feedback. In this feedback technique, a customer can review the product and provide updated requirements. Changed/updated/refined requirements are welcomed in the agile process to ensure the customer receives a valuable and quality product. A sprint or iteration typically lasts from two to four weeks and at the end a new and improved product is delivered, incrementally. [The Art of Agile Development. James Shore.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]

28. Why is an empowered team considered an important team attribute in agile?	
A. Empowered teams remove themselves from being responsible of product quality in order to reduce association with project failure.
B. Empowered teams need extensive management involvement in order to understand customer need
C. Empowered teams remain inflexible to changing customer requirements and focus on delivering to specification.
D. Empowered teams take ownership of the product and thus have a strong focus on delivering value.
Answer: D 
Explanation:  Empowered teams - ones that are self-organizing and know how to solve problems with minimal management involvement - are a cornerstone of the agile methodology. An agile team feels empowered when it collectively assumes responsibility for the delivery of the product (i.e., taking ownership). [Coaching Agile Teams. Lyssa Adkins.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]

29. List the primary steps in the Crystal development process project chartering activity.	
A. Building the team; Performing an Exploratory 360; Picking team conventions and practices; Building the initial project plan
B. Building the team; Performing an Exploratory 180; Picking team conventions and practices; Building the initial project plan
C. Choosing the product owner; Performing an Exploratory 360; Picking team conventions and practices; Building the initial project plan
D. Building the team; Performing an Exploratory 360; Picking story points or ideal days; Building the initial project plan
Answer: A 
Explanation:  The Crystal development process is cyclical/iterative. Its primary components are chartering, delivery cycles, and project wrap-up. Chartering involves creating a project charter, which can last from a few days to a few weeks. Chartering consists of four activities: 1) Building the core project team, 2) performing an Exploratory 360° assessment, 3) fine tuning the methodology, and 3) building the initial project plan. [Agile Software Development: The Cooperative Game – 2nd Edition. Alistair Cockburn.] [Agile analysis and design]

30. When is the product roadmap initially created?	
A. After the first release.
B. At the beginning of a project, usually after the vision statement has been defined.
C. After the first iteration.
D. During closing as end-user documentation to understand the product
Answer: B 
Explanation:  The product roadmap - owned by the product owner - serves as a high level overview of the product requirements. It is used as a tool for prioritizing features, organizing features into categories, and assigning rough time frames. Creating a product roadmap has four basic steps: 1) Identify requirements (these will become part of the product backlog), 2) Organize requirements into categories or themes, 3) Estimate relative work effort (e.g., planning poker or affinity estimation) and prioritize (value), and 4) Estimate rough time frames (estimate velocity, sprint duration, and rough release dates). [The Art of Agile Development. James Shore.] [Agile analysis and design]

31. What is the primary input to Highsmith's agile project management adapting phase?	
A. Built-in test output
B. Iteration schedule slip points
C. Feature feedback and critique
D. Scrum error analysis
Answer: C 
Explanation:  In the adapting phase, the agile team encourages feedback of the latest deliverable of an iteration. From the feedback, the team adapts product features and plans for the subsequent iteration. [Agile Project Management: Creating Innovative Products – 2nd Edition. Jim Highsmith.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]

32. What agile artifact outlines the project's expected rate of return?	
A. Task board
B. Iteration backlog
C. Burndown chart
D. Business case
Answer: D 
Explanation:  Business case development is an important initial step in agile project management. The business case is a concise document that outlines the project's vision, goals, strategies for achieving goals, milestones, required investment and expected return/payback. A business case articulates the why and how a project will deliver value to a customer. [Lean-Agile Software Development: Achieving Enterprise Agility. Alan Shalloway, Guy Beaver, James R. Trott.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 2]

33. How are user stories or features prioritized for development in the agile methodology?	
A. By difficulty
B. By value
C. By developer preference
D. By ease of implementation
Answer: B 
Explanation:  User stories are prioritized based on customer value. Value is determined by return on investment, growth of team knowledge, and risk reduction. [The Art of Agile Development. James Shore.] [Planning, monitoring, and adapting]
34. Which of the following is NOT a typical grouping of user stories for purposes of organization?	
A. By alphabetical letter
B. By relation to product feature
C. By priority
D. By logical sequence and dependency
Answer: A 
Explanation:  Various grouping methods are used to organize user stories. Typical methods are: Relation to a product feature (e.g., all user stories that interact with the database), By logical sequence and dependency (e.g., Group 1 must be developed before Group 2 because of technological dependency), 3) By priority based on customer value. [User Stories Applied: For Agile Software Development. Mike Cohn.] [Agile analysis and design]

35. Select an advantage of using an information radiator.	
A. Allows for a streamlined process for changing sprint deadlines
B. Makes communication of project status less time consuming
C. Improves team dynamics by offering a place to air grievances
D. Decreases the amount of time spent in daily standup meetings
Answer: B 
Explanation:  Information radiators improve team communication by reducing the amount of time spent explaining project status. [Agile Software Development: The Cooperative Game – 2nd Edition. Alistair Cockburn.] [Communications]

36. How might an agile team continuously improve its product?	
A. By using comprehensive documentation to define team values.
B. By performing ongoing testing.
C. By performing integration testing near the end of a release.
D. By performing work breakdown structure reviews.
Answer: B 
Explanation:  Agile project management places strong emphasis on 'continuous improvement.' Continuous improvement processes are built into the agile methodology, from customers providing feedback after each iteration to the team reserving time to reflect on its performance through retrospectives after each iteration. Ongoing unit and integration testing and keeping up with technological/industry developments also play a part in the continuous improvement process. Continuous improvement is also a key principle in the lean methodology, where a focus of removing waste from the value stream is held. [The Art of Agile Development. James Shore.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 2]

37. One level of planning in the agile project management methodology is release panning. Why is release planning important?	
A. It helps ensure the customer and agile team understand the product vision, acceptance criteria, and high-level product release plan.
B. It helps the team understand customer portfolio risks
C. It helps the customer solidify product requirements for the release
D. It helps the agile team decompose user stories into tasks.
Answer: A 
Explanation:  Release planning is important because the customer and development team collaborate to create a high-level plan for product release. User stories are initially defined during release planning. The release plan typically includes a schedule that includes several iterations and an estimate for when the product will be released. The development team discusses each user story in detail to, along with the customer, assign them to the project's iterations. [The Art of Agile Development. James Shore.] [Planning, monitoring, and adapting]

38. Becky, as project leader, intends on building a high-performance team. What is a practice or technique she can use to build a high performance team?	
A. Making all decisions for the team
B. Having a team that is self-organizing and self-disciplined
C. Promoting competition
D. Assigning more work than can be accomplished in an iteration to set a sense of urgency
Answer: B 
Explanation:  Building a high-performance team is critical to any project's success. A high performance team has the right team members, is empowered, has built trust, works at a sustainable pace, has consistently high velocity/productivity, takes regular time for reflection to review work, has a team lead that removes any obstacles and provides mentoring and coaching, is self-organized and self-disciplined, and is collocated. Several management techniques can be used to build or foster a high-performance team environment, some techniques include: removing obstacles that slow down a team's performance, having high expectations of team performance, and coaching and mentoring the team to achieve its best performance. [Coaching Agile Teams. Lyssa Adkins.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 2]

39. Calculate the Net Present Value of the following investment candidate. The initial investment cost is $1,000. The discount rate is 5%. At the end of year 1, $100 is expected. At the end of year 2, $300 is expected. At the end of year 3, $450 is expected.	
A. $(220.00)
B. $(244.00)
C. $(230.00)
D. $(300.00)
Answer: B 
Explanation:  Net Present Value: A metric used to analyze the profitability of an investment or project. NPV is the difference between the present value of cash inflows and the present value of cash outflows. NPV considers the likelihood of future cash inflows that an investment or project will yield. NPV is the sum of each cash inflow/outflow for the expected duration of the investment. Each cash inflow/outflow is discounted back to its present value (PV) (i.e.,, what the money is worth in terms of today's value). NPV is the sum of all terms: NPV = Sum of [ Rt/(1 + i)^t ] where t = the time of the cash flow, i = the discount rate (the rate of return that could be earned on in the financial markets), and Rt = the net cash inflow or outflow. For example, consider the following two year period. The discount rate is 5% and the initial investment cost is $500. At the end of the first year, a $200 inflow is expected. At the end of the second year, a $1,000 is expected. NPV = - 500 + 200/(1.05)^1 + 1000/(1.05)^2 = ~$597. If NPV is positive, it indicates that the investment will add value to the buyer's portfolio. If NPV is negative, it will subtract value. If NPV is zero, it will neither add or subtract value. [Agile Estimating and Planning. Mike Cohn.] [Value based prioritization]

40. How can a team ensure it benefits from osmotic communication?	
A. By collocating its team members.
B. By purchasing its team members blue tooth headsets.
C. By isolating its team members.
D. By separating team members into functional specialties.
Answer: A 
Explanation:  Osmotic communication is a concept of communication where information is shared between collocated team members unconsciously. By sharing the same work environment, team members are exposed to the same environmental sounds and other environmental input and unconsciously share a common framework that improves communication. [Agile Software Development: The Cooperative Game – 2nd Edition. Alistair Cockburn.] [Communications]

1. Calculate the return on investment of the following: Gain: $30,000; Cost: $10,000.
A. 33%
B. 200%
C. 300%
D. -50%
	
	Answer: B 
Explanation:Return on Investment (ROI): A metric used to evaluate the efficiency of an investment or to compare efficiency among a number of investments. To calculate ROI, the return of an investment (i.e., the gain minus the cost) is divided by the cost of the investment. The result is usually expressed as a percentage and sometimes a ratio. The product owner is often said to be responsible for the ROI. [Agile Estimating and Planning. Mike Cohn.] [Value based prioritization]
	

2. How might an agile team continuously improve?
A. By isolating team members so that they may focus on developing code without interruption.
B. By reviewing customer feedback at the end of a project.
C. By using software techniques that are outdated but functional.
D. By keeping up with industry developments in technology.
	
	Answer: D 
Explanation:Agile project management places strong emphasis on 'continuous improvement.' Continuous improvement processes are built into the agile methodology, from customers providing feedback after each iteration to the team reserving time to reflect on its performance through retrospectives after each iteration. Ongoing unit and integration testing and keeping up with technological/industry developments also play a part in the continuous improvement process. Continuous improvement is also a key principle in the lean methodology, where a focus of removing waste from the value stream is held. [The Art of Agile Development. James Shore.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 2]

	3. For a new agile project team, what is a good next step for building a high performance team?
A. Immediately establishing a daily standup where team members are told their roles.
B. Holding a retrospective where the project leader can assign roles to team members.
C. Taking the team out for lunch so that members can get to know one another and establish trust.
D. Calling a meeting where the project leader can assign preliminary tasks to the team.
	
	Answer: C 
Explanation:The BEST answer is taking the team out to lunch for bonding and trust building. The other responses include behaviors atypical of a high performance team (i.e., project leader controlling and directing too much rather than letting the self-organizing team manage itself). [Agile Retrospectives: Making Good Teams Great. Esther Derby, Diana Larsen, Ken Schwaber.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 2]
	
	4. During the daily scrum, Joseph, the scrum master, notices that several team members are holding disruptive side conversations. What should Joseph do?
A. Bring up the issue in the project retrospective.
B. Extend the meeting to make up for lost time.
C. Trust that as a self-organizing team, it will notice the issue and correct the problem.
D. Cancel the meeting.
	Answer: C 
Explanation:A high-performance, self-organizing team should realize and correct the disruptive behavior. [Coaching Agile Teams. Lyssa Adkins.] [Communications]

	5. Select a method used in agile for the purpose of prioritization.
A. MoSCoW
B. Cano
C. WIDETOM
D. Cannon
Answer: A 
Explanation:An agile team must always face the prioritization of product features in its product backlog. From release planning to iteration planning, an agile team must prioritize the user stories/features of its product to ensure that high-quality and high-value features are developed first to help facilitate an optimized and early return on investment (ROI). An agile team typically prioritizes requirements or user stories/features in terms of relative value and risk; value is defined by the customer (i.e., customer-value prioritization). Two common methods to prioritize product features are: MoSCoW and Kano. The MoSCoW method categorizes features into 'Must have,' 'Should have,' 'Could have,' and 'Would have' features. The Kano method categorizes features into 'Must haves (threshold),' 'Dissatisfiers,' 'Satisfiers,' and 'Delighters.' Must haves are features that are requisite. Dissatisfiers are features that adversely impact perceived value and should be eliminated. 'Satisfiers' are features that increase perceived value linearly, where the more you add the more the customer is pleased, but are not required, and 'Delighters' are features that increase perceived value exponentially to please the customer. To prioritize features based on risk, a risk-to-value matrix can be used. A risk-to-value matrix has four quadrants, with the horizontal axis having low and high value, and the vertical axis having low and high risk. User stories are assigned to one of the four categories/quadrants: low-value, low-risk; low-value, high-risk; high-value, low-risk; high-value, high-risk. A cost-to-value matrix can also be made in this manner. All prioritization in agile is 'relative,' meaning that the priority of one user story is relative to other user stories and not prioritized on a fixed scale. [Lean-Agile Software Development: Achieving Enterprise Agility. Alan Shalloway, Guy Beaver, James R. Trott.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]
	
	6. Becky and her agile team have just performed decomposition on several user stories and wants to prioritize them. What common technique might she and her team use to prioritize the user stories?
A. Kano
B. Cano
C. Cannon
D. Agile
Answer: A 
Explanation:In iteration planning, an agile team, collaboratively with the customer, chooses user stories to include for development. Although the user stories are prioritized in the product backlog initially during release planning, an agile team and customer should review prioritization based on progressive elaboration (i.e., gained knowledge and perspective). Prioritization is often based on value and risk and can be performed using the MoSCoW or Kano method and through the use of risk-to-value and cost-to-value matrices. An agile team performs decomposition to subdivide user stories into more manageable tasks so that it may estimate task time. Tasks for an iteration may also be prioritized based on value, similar to how user stories are prioritized. [Lean-Agile Software Development: Achieving Enterprise Agility. Alan Shalloway, Guy Beaver, James R. Trott.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]
		
	7. What is a typical scrum timebox value for a sprint review meeting?
A. 4 hours
B. 8 hours
C. 16 hours
D. 24 hours
	Answer: A 
Explanation:In the agile framework scrum, sprint planning and sprint review meetings are often timeboxed at four hours. [The Art of Agile Development. James Shore.] [Planning, monitoring, and adapting]

	8. What type of team uses collaboration to solve problems and decides on the path forward?
A. Honored team
B. Empowered team
C. Integrated team
D. Certified team
	Answer: B 
Explanation:Empowered teams - ones that are self-organizing and know how to solve problems with minimal management involvement - are a cornerstone of the agile methodology. This is the antithesis to the classic viewpoint of the traditional project manager who is seen as someone that controls all decisions and delegates tasks to a team with little feedback. An agile team must include all members and stakeholders to make decisions, and make decisions expediently. Because it is essential that the user/customer be involved with development, it is encouraged that the user/customer is closely integrated with the agile team with collocation/on-site support being ideal. An agile team feels empowered when it collectively assumes responsibility for the delivery of the product (i.e., taking ownership). [Coaching Agile Teams. Lyssa Adkins.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]

	9. Ethan as project leader, has been discussing the importance of 'stakeholder management' with his team. Why is stakeholder management so important?
A. Chances of project success are inversely related to stakeholder involvement.
B. Chances of project success are independent of stakeholder involvement.
C. Chances of project success are greatly improved with engaged stakeholders.
D. Chances of project success are greatly reduced with engaged stakeholders.
	Answer: C 
Explanation:Stakeholder management is a growing topic area within strategic management that brings awareness to the importance of managing stakeholders (i.e., facilitating active participation of stakeholders and fostering a strong collaborative environment) for a project's success. Stakeholder management is typically defined in the context of guiding principles and values. R. E. Freeman's 'Managing for Stakeholders' includes 10 principles: 1) Stakeholder interests need to go together over time. 2) We need a philosophy of volunteerism – to engage stakeholders and manage relationships ourselves rather than leave it to government. 3) We need to find solutions to issues that satisfy multiple stakeholders simultaneously. 4) Everything that we do serves stakeholders. We never trade off the interests of one versus the other continuously over time. 5) We act with purpose that fulfills our commitment to stakeholders. We act with aspiration towards fulfilling our dreams and theirs. 6) We need intensive communication and dialogue with stakeholders – not just those who are friendly. 7)Stakeholders consist of real people with names and faces and children. They are complex. 8)We need to generalize the marketing approach. 9) We engage with both primary and secondary stakeholders. 10) We constantly monitor and redesign processes to make them better serve our stakeholders. Because stakeholder involvement is critical for the success of a project, where projects without active participation from stakeholders are prone to failure, stakeholder management should be a topic that every agile team knows well. [The Art of Agile Development. James Shore.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]

	10.The general translation of the lean term "Kaizen" is
A. Change through value stream mapping
B. Change though process improvement
C. Change for the better
D. Change through the elimination of waste
	Answer: C 
Explanation:The Japanese word "kaizen" means change for the better. [Lean-Agile Software Development: Achieving Enterprise Agility. Alan Shalloway, Guy Beaver, James R. Trott.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 2]

	11. Of the following, which is NOT a phase of Highsmith's agile project management?
A. Exploring
B. Closing
C. Envisioning
D. Planning
Answer: D 
Explanation:The agile project management phases, in sequence, are: Envisioning, speculating, exploring, adapting, closing. [Manifesto for Agile Software Development. Agile Alliance.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]

	
	12. Stella and her team are using a framework where the team follows a prescriptive development process that plans and manages from the perspective of the product features. Which framework is Stella's team incorporating into its agile effort?
A. Test driven development (TDD)
B. Defect driven development (3D)
C. Feature driven development (FDD)
D. Acceptance test driven development (ATDD)
	Answer: C 
Explanation:Feature driven development (FDD) uses a prescriptive model where the software development process is planned, managed, and tracked from the perspective of individual software features. FDD uses short iterations of two weeks or less to develop a set amount of features. The five step FDD process is: 1. Develop overall model; 2. Create the features list; 3. Plan by feature; 4. Design by feature; 5 Build by feature. [Agile Software Development: The Cooperative Game – 2nd Edition. Alistair Cockburn.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 2]
	13. Paul is explaining the agile project management method to his superiors. He must describe the phases of agile project management. Which response has the correct sequence of agile phases as typically introduced by Highsmith?
A. Closing, adapting, exploring, speculating, envisioning
B. Planning, executing, initiating, monitoring and controlling, closing
C. Envisioning, speculating, exploring, adapting, closing
D. Envisioning, exploring, speculating, adapting, closing
	Answer: C 
Explanation:The agile project management phases, in sequence of introduction, are: Envisioning, speculating, exploring, adapting, closing. It is important to note that these phases can occur simultaneously and iteratively. [Agile Project Management: Creating Innovative Products – 2nd Edition. Jim Highsmith.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]

	14. Select the response that has the traditional project management phases in the proper sequence (as typically introduced).
A. Initiating, planning, executing, monitoring and controlling, closing
B. Closing, planning, initiating, executing, monitoring and controlling
C. Initiating, planning, executing, closing, monitoring and controlling
D. Planning, executing, initiating, monitoring and controlling, closing
	Answer: A 
Explanation:The traditional project management phases are typically introduced in the following sequence: Initiating, planning, executing, monitoring and controlling, and closing. It is important to note that monitoring and controlling happen concurrently and throughout the project life-cycle with other phases. [Agile Project Management: Creating Innovative Products – 2nd Edition. Jim Highsmith.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]

	15. Bart is using a cost-to-value matrix technique to understand the value of each feature in the eyes of the customer. What is a cost-to-value matrix an example of?
A. An WIDETOM analysis technique
B. A priority-based analysis technique
C. A constraints-based analysis technique
D. A value-based analysis technique
	Answer: D 
Explanation:Value-based analysis strives to understand how value, as defined by the customer, relates to various components of the product, like features and tasks. Features are often prioritized with prioritization based on value and risk. Prioritization can be performed using the MoSCoW or Kano method and through the use of risk-to-value and cost-to-value matrices. [Lean-Agile Software Development: Achieving Enterprise Agility. Alan Shalloway, Guy Beaver, James R. Trott.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 2]
	
	16. Wendy is concerned with the recent stagnant performance of her agile team. She believes it to be highly capable but stuck in a rut. What agile knowledge and skill technique might Wendy consider?
A. Coaching and mechanizing
B. Crowdsourcing and mentoring
C. Symptom and solution
D. Coaching and mentoring
Answer: D 
Explanation:Coaching and mentoring within teams can be helpful for nascent agile teams and even for more experienced agile teams. Coaching and mentoring is the act of helping a person or team improve performance and achieve realistic goals. Because agile has a value of continuous improvement, coaching and mentoring is not solely for new or immature teams, but experienced ones too where coaching can help achieve higher levels of performance. The amount of coaching and mentoring an agile team needs is variable. Some newer teams will need a coach guiding the team nearly all the time while others may need a coach only for particularly challenging situations. A not uncommon scenario is to have a coach help the team collectively during sprint/iteration planning and then during the iteration help mentor individual team members. [Coaching Agile Teams. Lyssa Adkins.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]
	
	17. Peter is a project leader for an agile project. He makes sure that his team always has a non-threatening environment when it needs to brainstorm. The use of a non-threatening environment is a…
A. Facilitation method
B. Asymmetric method
C. Capitulation method
D. Prescriptive method
Answer: A 
Explanation:As a project leader or scrum master, effective facilitation methods are critical for building a high-performance and motivated team. Facilitation of meetings, discussions, demonstrations, etc., is a constant on an agile project. Some general facilitation methods include: using a small number of people for brainstorming events; hosting events in a non-threatening/comfortable environment; having an agenda that is shared with the group ahead of time; using open-ended questions instead of closed-ended questions; including a diverse representation to gain a broader perspective of the topic. [Agile Retrospectives: Making Good Teams Great. Esther Derby, Diana Larsen, Ken Schwaber.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 2]
	
	18. How are NPV and IRR similar?
A. Both are used as financial metrics.
B. Both are used as refactoring metrics.
C. Both are used as reflection metrics.
D. Both are used as sprint metrics.
Answer: A 
Explanation:The internal rate of return (IRR) is a financial metric used to measure and compare the profitability of investments. The IRR is the "rate" that makes the net present value of all cash flows from a particular investment equal to zero. Unlike NPV which is a dollar amount (i.e., a magnitude) value, the IRR is a rate (i.e.,, a percentage). Often times, the IRR is compared against a threshold rate value to determine if the investment is a suitable risk worth implementing. For example, you might calculate an IRR to be 13% for an investment while a comparative market rate is 2%. The IRR being larger than the comparative market rate, would indicate the investment is worth pursuing. [Agile Estimating and Planning. Mike Cohn.] [Value based prioritization]
	
	19. From the following, select a technique that promotes agile 'knowledge sharing.'
A. Separation
B. Collocation
C. Isolation
D. Sequestering
Answer: B 
Explanation:In agile, effective 'knowledge sharing' is a critical factor for success. It involves the near real time communication of key information among all team members and stakeholders. To promote knowledge sharing, agile uses standard practices built into its process, such as using generalized specialists/cross functional teams, self-organizing and self-disciplined teams, collocation, daily stand-up meetings, iteration/sprint planning, release planning, pair programming and pair rotation, project retrospectives/reflection, and on-site customer support. And, of course, the sixth principle of Agile is " The most efficient and effective method of conveying information to and within a development team is face-to-face conversation." In this sense, Agile prefers and encourages collocation for all stakeholders and team members for the simple fact that face-to-face conversation is the best method of communication and, in turn, effective knowledge sharing. [Becoming Agile:…in an imperfect world. Greg Smith, Ahmed Sidky.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]
	
	20. When value stream mapping it is important to identify areas of waste that exist in the process. The pneumonic device WIDETOM may be used to remember the different forms of muda (or waste). What does the M in WIDETOM stand for with respect to waste?
A. Make-up WIP
B. Mirroring
C. Mistake
D. Motion
Answer: D 
Explanation:Value stream mapping is a lean manufacturing analysis technique adopted by agile. A value stream map may be used to analyze the flow of information or materials from origin to destination to identify areas of waste. The identified areas of waste are opportunities for process improvement. Waste can take many forms and can be remembered using the pneumonic device WIDETOM. W - waiting; I - inventory; D - defects; E - extra processing; T - transportation; O - overproduction; M - Motion. A value stream map is typically mapped or charted collaboratively with a team so it may define and view the entire process together, pinpointing areas of waste within the process. Processes that add value (processing of a part or feature) are generally referred to as "value-added" and processes that do not (e.g., waiting for a part to arrive) are generally referred to as "non value-added." Generally speaking, one wants to reduce, to the largest extent possible, the non value-added time (i.e., areas of waste). [Lean-Agile Software Development: Achieving Enterprise Agility. Alan Shalloway, Guy Beaver, James R. Trott.] [Value stream analysis]
	
	21. In agile, the "team space" is an important place that should foster effective communication. What is a guideline for promoting such an environment?
A. Space for daily stand-up meetings
B. Separation of team members by function
C. Isolation of team members
D. Rotation of team members
Answer: A 
Explanation:A warm, welcoming environment that promotes effective communication, innovation, and motivated team members is an important aspect to consider when designing team space. Guidelines for a better agile team space include: collocation of team members; reduction of non-essential noise/distractions; dedicated whiteboard and wall space for information radiators; space for the daily stand-up meeting and other meetings; pairing workstations; and other pleasantries like plants and comfortable furniture. [Agile Retrospectives: Making Good Teams Great. Esther Derby, Diana Larsen, Ken Schwaber.] [Communications]
	
	22. What is the process called when an agile team subdivides user stories into manageable tasks?
A. Sub-tasking
B. Sub-functioning
C. Decomposition
D. Subdivision
Answer: C 
Explanation:In iteration planning, an agile team, collaboratively with the customer, chooses user stories to include for development. Although the user stories are prioritized in the product backlog initially during release planning, an agile team and customer should review prioritization based on progressive elaboration (i.e., gained knowledge and perspective). Prioritization is often based on value and risk and can be performed using the MoSCoW or Kano method and through the use of risk-to-value and cost-to-value matrices. An agile team performs decomposition to subdivide user stories into more manageable tasks so that it may estimate task time. Tasks for an iteration may also be prioritized based on value, similar to how user stories are prioritized. [Lean-Agile Software Development: Achieving Enterprise Agility. Alan Shalloway, Guy Beaver, James R. Trott.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]
	
	23. What is one piece of information a stakeholder can review using a risk-based burnup chart?
A. The amount of story points remaining to complete in an iteration.
B. The amount of remaining use stories to decompose in a release.
C. The amount of defects identified to date in a release.
D. The amount of story points that will be completed in a project in a worst-case scenario.

Answer: D 
Explanation:A risk-based burnup chart tracks targeted and actual product delivery progress and also includes estimates of how likely the team is to achieve targeted value adjusted for risk. Typically, risk is shown as three different levels: best-case; most likely; and worst-case. For example, if you have a 10 iteration project and the team's current velocity is 10 story points, you can portray the chance of completing 100 story points (most likely case), the chance of completing 80 story points (worst-case), and the chance of completing 120 story points (best-case). In this way, the stakeholders get a feel for the range of risk. [The Art of Agile Development. James Shore.] [Risk management]
	
	24. Terry is currently negotiating the type of contract for her agile project with the customer's financial representative. What types of contracts are suitable for agile efforts?
A. General service for the initial phase with fixed-price contracts for successive phases; fixed-price; not-to-exceed with fixed-fee
B. General service for the initial phase with fixed-price contracts for successive phases; cost-reimbursable/time and materials; not-to-exceed with fixed-fee
C. General service for the initial phase with fixed-price contracts for successive phases; cost-reimbursable/time and materials; fixed-price
D. Fixed-price; cost-reimbursable/time and materials; not-to-exceed with fixed-fee
Answer: B 
Explanation:Fixed-price contracts, although typical of traditional projects where scope is defined ahead of time, are not well suited for agile. When scope is fixed it can deter a team from exploring out-of-scope solutions that may add value to the product. Contracts suited for agile include: general service for the initial phase with fixed-price contracts for successive phases; cost-reimbursable/time and materials; not-to-exceed with fixed-fee; and a combination with incentives. [Agile Software Development: The Cooperative Game – 2nd Edition. Alistair Cockburn.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 3]
	
	25. Which of the following responses is NOT a community value per the PMI agile community of practice community charter?
A. Courage
B. Honesty
C. Confident
D. Collaboration
Answer: C 
Explanation:The following are community values of the PMI agile community of practice community charter: Vision, Servant Leadership, Trust, Collaboration, Honesty, Learning, Courage, Openness, Adaptability, Leading Change, Transparency [PMI Agile Community of Practice Community Charter. Project Management Institute.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]
	
	26. According to Highsmith and his definition of adaptive leadership, what is one item a project leader can focus on for "doing agile?"
A. Quality
B. Integrity
C. Value
D. Model
Answer: A 
Explanation:Highsmith defines adaptive leadership as two dimensional: Being agile and doing agile. Being agile includes focusing on cornerstones of agile project management, like incremental delivery, continuous integration, and adapting to changing requirements. Doing agile includes several activities that an agile leader must do: do less; speed-to-value, quality, and engage and inspire. [Agile Project Management: Creating Innovative Products – 2nd Edition. Jim Highsmith.] [Soft skills negotiation]
	
	27. 
	What information radiator, similar to a burnup chart, can be used on an agile project to show total scope of items in the backlog?
A. Total scope diagram
B. Cumulative flow diagram
C. Lean flow diagram
D. Total flow diagram
Answer: B 
Explanation:Like burnup charts, cumulative flow diagrams are information radiators that can track progress for agile projects. CFDs differ from traditional burnup charts because they convey total scope (not started, started, completed) of the entire backlog. Tracked items can be features, stories, tasks, or use cases. By tracking total scope, CFDs communicate absolute progress and give a proportional sense of project progress (e.g., On Day 14: 15% of features have been completed; 15% have been started; and, 70% have not been started). [Lean-Agile Software Development: Achieving Enterprise Agility. Alan Shalloway, Guy Beaver, James R. Trott.] [Planning, monitoring, and adapting]
	
	28. Kyle is using a popular agile framework that emphasizes the user of information radiators such as task boards and burndown charts and includes three major phases: pre-game, game, and post-game. Which framework is Kyle most likely using?
A. Lean
B. Crystal
C. Scrum
D. XP
Answer: C 
Explanation:Scrum is a framework that strives to facilitate the development of complex products quickly and efficiently, the adaptation of changing requirements, the delivery of working products incrementally. Scrum development includes three major phases: pre-game, game, and post-game. Scrum emphasizes the use of product and sprint backlogs, iterative development (termed "sprints"), daily stand-up meetings (termed "scrums"), sprint reviews (demos) and reflection, and the use of information radiators such as task boards and burndown charts. [Ken Schwaber. Agile Project Management with Scrum. Chapter 1.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 2]	
	
	29.From the following, select a technique that promotes agile 'knowledge sharing.'
A. Extreme programming, extreme rotation
B. Couple programming, couple rotation
C. Pare programming, pare rotation
D. Pair programming, pair rotation
Answer: D 
Explanation:In agile, effective 'knowledge sharing' is a critical factor for success. It involves the near real time communication of key information among all team members and stakeholders. To promote knowledge sharing, agile uses standard practices built into its process, such as using generalized specialists/cross functional teams, self-organizing and self-disciplined teams, collocation, daily stand-up meetings, iteration/sprint planning, release planning, pair programming and pair rotation, project retrospectives/reflection, and on-site customer support. And, of course, the sixth principle of Agile is " The most efficient and effective method of conveying information to and within a development team is face-to-face conversation." In this sense, Agile prefers and encourages collocation for all stakeholders and team members for the simple fact that face-to-face conversation is the best method of communication and, in turn, effective knowledge sharing. [Becoming Agile: …in an imperfect world. Greg Smith, Ahmed Sidky.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]
	
	30. What topic area within strategic management helps with the facilitation of a collaborative environment where stakeholders are heavily involved in a project?
A. Brainstorming management
B. Stakeholder management
C. Teamwork management
D. Collaborating management
Answer: B 
Explanation:Stakeholder management is a growing topic area within strategic management that brings awareness to the importance of managing stakeholders (i.e., facilitating active participation of stakeholders and fostering a strong collaborative environment) for a project's success. Stakeholder management is typically defined in the context of guiding principles and values. R. E. Freeman's 'Managing for Stakeholders' includes 10 principles: 1) Stakeholder interests need to go together over time. 2) We need a philosophy of volunteerism – to engage stakeholders and manage relationships ourselves rather than leave it to government. 3) We need to find solutions to issues that satisfy multiple stakeholders simultaneously. 4) Everything that we do serves stakeholders. We never trade off the interests of one versus the other continuously over time. 5) We act with purpose that fulfills our commitment to stakeholders. We act with aspiration towards fulfilling our dreams and theirs. 6) We need intensive communication and dialogue with stakeholders – not just those who are friendly. 7)Stakeholders consist of real people with names and faces and children. They are complex. 8)We need to generalize the marketing approach. 9) We engage with both primary and secondary stakeholders. 10) We constantly monitor and redesign processes to make them better serve our stakeholders. Because stakeholder involvement is critical for the success of a project, where projects without active participation from stakeholders are prone to failure, stakeholder management should be a topic that every agile team knows well. [The Art of Agile Development. James Shore.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]
	
	31. Select the response that holds one of Ron Jeffries three Cs used to help define user stories.
A. Creative
B. Collaboration
C. Customer-oriented
D. Confirmation
Answer: D 
Explanation:Ron Jeffries' three Cs for user story definition are card, conversation, confirmation. [User Stories Applied: For Agile Software Development. Mike Cohn.] [Planning, monitoring, and adapting]
	
	32. Of the following responses, which is NOT a community value per the PMI agile community of practice community charter?
A. Collaboration
B. Honesty
C. Trust
D. Weary
Answer: D 
Explanation:The following are community values of the PMI agile community of practice community charter: Vision, Servant Leadership, Trust, Collaboration, Honesty, Learning, Courage, Openness, Adaptability, Leading Change, Transparency [PMI Agile Community of Practice Community Charter. Project Management Institute.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]
	
	33. What do the three Cs mean with respect to user stories?
A. Card, collaboration, conformance
B. Card, collaboration, confirmation
C. Card, conversation, confirmation
D. Collaboration, conformance, configurable

Answer: C 
Explanation:Ron Jeffries' three Cs for user story definition are card, conversation, confirmation. [User Stories Applied: For Agile Software Development. Mike Cohn.] [Planning, monitoring, and adapting]
	 
	34. Which of the following responses is a community value per the PMI agile community of practice community charter?
A. Trust
B. Collected
C. Careful
D. Commandeering
Answer: A 
Explanation:The following are community values of the PMI agile community of practice community charter: Vision, Servant Leadership, Trust, Collaboration, Honesty, Learning, Courage, Openness, Adaptability, Leading Change, Transparency [PMI Agile Community of Practice Community Charter. Project Management Institute.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]
	
	35. Select the response that holds one of Ron Jeffries three Cs used to help define user stories.
A. Conversation
B. Collaboration
C. Collection
D. Customer-focused
Answer: A 
Explanation:Ron Jeffries' three Cs for user story definition are card, conversation, confirmation. [User Stories Applied: For Agile Software Development. Mike Cohn.] [Planning, monitoring, and adapting]
	
	36. Having a high emotional intelligence is important to promote effective communication in an agile team. What is one of the seven components of emotional intelligence as defined by Higgs & Dulewicz?
A. Competitiveness
B. Introversion
C. Intuitiveness
D. Self determination
Answer: C 
Explanation:Higgs & Dulewicz (1999) defines emotional intelligence using seven components: 1) Self-awareness, 2) Emotional resilience, 3) Motivation, 4) Interpersonal sensitivity, 5) Influence, 6) Intuitiveness, and 7) Conscientiousness. [Coaching Agile Teams. Lyssa Adkins.] [Soft skills negotiation]
	
	37. Randy always likes to remind himself that the agile software project he is working on is like a CAS. What does CAS stand for?
A. Cost acquisition system
B. Complex adaptive system
C. Constructive adaptive simulation
D. Complex accrual system
Answer: B 
Explanation:A complex adaptive system, or CAS, is a system composed of interacting, adaptive agents or components. The term is used in agile to remind practitioners that the development of a product is adaptive in that previous interactions, events, decisions influence future behavior. The term chaordic (a made up word blending chaotic and order) is sometimes used when describing CASs. Literature points to three key characteristics of chaordic projects: alignment and cooperation, emergence and self-organization, and learning and adaptation. [Agile Project Management: Creating Innovative Products – 2nd Edition. Jim Highsmith.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 3]	
	
	38. Lisa is describing the four Agile Manifesto values to her co-workers. Which response lists one of its primary values?
A. Comprehensive documentation
B. Following a plan
C. Individuals and interactions
D. Contract negotiation
Answer: C 
Explanation:The Agile Manifesto defines four values. The four values list primary values and secondary values, with primary values superseding secondary values. The values are 1) individuals and interactions over processes and tools, 2) working software over comprehensive documentation, 3) customer collaboration over contract negotiation, and 4) responding to change over following a plan. [Manifesto for Agile Software Development. Agile Alliance.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]
	
	39. Which of the following is a key soft skill negotiation quality?
A. Conceding
B. Controlling
C. Collaboration
D. Compromise
Answer: C 
Explanation:Key soft skills negotiation qualities for the effective implementation and practice of agile are: emotional intelligence, collaboration, adaptive leadership, negotiation, conflict resolution, servant leadership. [Coaching Agile Teams. Lyssa Adkins.] [Soft skills negotiation]
	
	40. Why does an agile practitioner during a stand-up meeting state current obstacles to project progress?
A. To update the obstacle information radiator.
B. To communicate with the team obstacles that collectively it may be able to resolve.
C. To provide rationale for project delays and false starts.
D. To place blame and let upper management know where inefficiencies exist.
Answer: B 
Explanation:The key characteristics of a healthy standup meeting include: peer pressure - the team is dependent upon each other so expectations of peers drives progress; finegrained coordination - the team should understand the necessity for focus and working dependently; fine focus - the team should understand the need for brevity in the stand-up meeting so the team can be productive; daily commitment - the team should understand the value of daily commitments to each other and uphold those commitments; identification of obstacles - the team collectively should be aware of each other's obstacles so that the team collectively can try to resolve them. [The Art of Agile Development. James Shore.] [Communications]

1. Xavier has just written production code and applied a test as part of the four step process of TDD. What step is Xavier performing?	
A. 2nd
B. 1st
C. 4th
D. 3rd

Answer: D 
Explanation:The TDD process has four basic steps: Write a test, 2) Verify and validate the test, 3) Write product code and apply the test, 4) Refactor the product code. An example may be that a user has to enter an age value. A good test is to make sure the user data entry is a positive number and not a different type of input, like a letter (i.e., write the test). The programmer would verify that entering a letter instead of a number would cause the program to cause an exception (i.e., v&v the test). The programmer would then write product code that takes user entry for the age value (i.e., write the product code). The programmer would then run the product code and enter correct age values and incorrect age values (i.e., apply the test). If the product code is successful, the programmer would refactor the product code to improve its design. Using these four steps iteratively ensures that programmers think about how a software program might fail first and to build product code that is holistically being tested. This helps produce high quality code. [The Art of Agile Development. James Shore.] [Product quality]

2. Select the response that lists one of the five core risk areas that can impact a project.	
A. Personnel loss
B. Configuration management
C. Release management
D. Version management

Answer: A 
Explanation:The five core risk areas include: productivity variation (difference between planned and actual performance); scope creep (considerable additional requirements beyond initial agreement); specification breakdown (lack of stakeholder consensus on requirements); intrinsic schedule flaw (poor estimates of task durations), personnel loss (the loss of human resources). [The Software Project Manager's Bridge to Agility. Michele Sliger, Stacia Broderick.] [Risk management]

3. In agile, a business case should include which of the following topics?	
A. Milestones
B. Work breakdown structure
C. Product version
D. Configuration plan

Answer: A 
Explanation:Business case development is an important initial step in agile project management. The business case is a concise document that outlines the project's vision, goals, strategies for achieving goals, milestones, required investment and expected return/payback. A business case articulates the why and how a project will deliver value to a customer. [Lean-Agile Software Development: Achieving Enterprise Agility. Alan Shalloway, Guy Beaver, James R. Trott.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 2]

4. During the exploring phase of Highsmith's agile project management model, what goals do agile project leaders have?	
A. Configuring unit testing plans
B. Helping developers to overcome obstacles, managing team interactions with product owners, customers, and stakeholders
C. Authoring feature breakdown documentation
D. Measuring task progress against task schedule
Answer: B 
Explanation: When conducting the exploring phase, project leaders assist developers by removing any obstacles or constraints that my impeded progress, and managing interaction with product owners, customers, and other stakeholders. [Agile Project Management: Creating Innovative Products – 2nd Edition. Jim Highsmith.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]

5. Pick the response which is NOT a characteristic of the agile verification process.	
A. Confirms the product meets specifications and requirements.
B. Helps ensure quality.
C. Confirms the product meets user needs.
D. Performed frequently.
Answer: C 
Explanation: Because each iteration typically produces a working product that is built and integrated and iterations are typically two to four weeks in length, there is frequent verification and validation to ensure product quality. Verification is the confirmation that a performs as specified by a customer (e.g. as indicated by a user story) and validation is the confirmation that a product behaves as desired (i.e., meets the customer's need). Sometimes a product may be built and integrated to specification - that is, it can be verified - but it does not meet the intent of the customer - that is, it cannot be validated. [Agile Software Development: The Cooperative Game – 2nd Edition. Alistair Cockburn.] [Product quality]

6. When using three-sigma as a control limit range, what characteristic must the underlying data have?	
A. A normal distribution
B. A sigma distribution
C. A skewed distribution
D. A theta distribution
Answer: A 
Explanation:Control limits - those which set an objective range to indicate whether a process is controlled or stabilized or defect free (e.g., within three sigmas of the mean) - may be used in an agile project. Generally, a control limit of three-sigma (s) is used on a Shewhart control chart. A sigma refers to one standard deviation. So three sigmas indicates a limit three standard deviations away from the mean in both the positive and negative direction. This applies to normal data, where a normal distribution curve has been obtained. [Lean-Agile Software Development: Achieving Enterprise Agility. Alan Shalloway, Guy Beaver, James R. Trott.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 3]

7. Select from the following a key soft skill negotiation quality.	
A. Conflict assessment
B. Conflict identification
C. Conflict resolution
D. Conflict validation
Answer: C 
Explanation: Key soft skills negotiation qualities for the effective implementation and practice of agile are: emotional intelligence, collaboration, adaptive leadership, negotiation, conflict resolution, servant leadership. [Coaching Agile Teams. Lyssa Adkins.] [Soft skills negotiation]

8. In planning poker, a modified Fibonacci sequence is often used for the playing card values. Which of the following sequences is the beginning of the modified Fibonacci sequence used for planning poker?	
A. 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 13
B. 0, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13
C. 0, 3, 7, 11, 15, 17, 21
D. 0, 1, 1, 2, 4, 8, 16
Answer: B 
Explanation: The Fibonacci sequence begins with 0 and 1 and every successive number is the sum of the previous two numbers. Therefore the Fibonacci sequence begins 0, 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, etc. In planning poker, a 1 is removed because it is redundant. [Agile Estimating and Planning. Mike Cohn.] [Agile estimation]

9. Michael, in his review of estimated user story points for the upcoming iteration, finds that the project manager is artificially inflating the user story points to significantly lengthen the project period of performance in order to increase project revenue. It is a time and material contract and lengthening the period of performance would help boost Michael's parent company's profit. What should Michael do?	
A. Confront the customer representative.
B. Confront Michael's project manager's boss.
C. Report the unethical and illegal conduct to the appropriate parties.
D. Confront his project manager.
Answer: C 
Explanation: The PMI Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct states that it is mandatory for a project manager to: inform yourself about and uphold the policies, rules, regulations, and laws that govern your work, including professional and volunteer activities; report unethical or illegal conduct to appropriate parties and, if necessary, to those affected by the misconduct; ensure that any allegations of misconduct or illegal activity are substantiated and file only complaints that are supported by facts; never take part or help someone else take part in illegal activities. [PMI Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct. Project Management Institute.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 2]

10. Which of the following is a key soft skill negotiation quality?	
A. Adaptive leadership
B. Agile leadership
C. Constant leadership
D. Collaborative leadership
Answer: A 
Explanation:Key soft skills negotiation qualities for the effective implementation and practice of agile are: emotional intelligence, collaboration, adaptive leadership, negotiation, conflict resolution, servant leadership. [Coaching Agile Teams. Lyssa Adkins.] [Soft skills negotiation]

11. What typically occurs directly after an agile team and product owner build an initial product roadmap?	
A. Release planning.
B. Definition of the product vision
C. Exploratory 360.
D. Iteration planning
Answer: A 
Explanation:The product roadmap - owned by the product owner - serves as a high level overview of the product requirements. It is used as a tool for prioritizing features, organizing features into categories, and assigning rough time frames. Creating a product roadmap has four basic steps: 1) Identify requirements (these will become part of the product backlog), 2) Organize requirements into categories or themes, 3) Estimate relative work effort (e.g., planning poker or affinity estimation) and prioritize (value), and 4) Estimate rough time frames (estimate velocity, sprint duration, and rough release dates). [The Art of Agile Development. James Shore.] [Agile analysis and design]

12. You are working on an agile team that's 12. developing software for a major shipping company. The team has just entered Highsmith's agile project management speculation phase after completing the envisioning phase. In addition to estimating project costs, what else should be considered?	
A. Project risk and accompanying mitigation strategies
B. Project schedule
C. Constraints and quality drivers
D. Project vision and scope
Answer: A 
Explanation:The focus in the speculation phase is on estimating iteration and release plans, defining feature breakdown, developing a rough project plan, considering project risk and risk mitigation strategies, and estimating project costs. [Agile Project Management: Creating Innovative Products – 2nd Edition. Jim Highsmith.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]

13. Select the response that best defines progressive elaboration.	
A. Continuous planning with the expectation that velocity will increase progressively as the project progresses.
B. Continuous planning with the expectation that story point values will decrease in relation to the steep learning curve of developers.
C. Continuous planning with the expectation that plans and details will inevitably change but become more refined as the project progresses.
D. Continuous planning with the expectation that estimates of task time will become more progressive as the project evolves.
Answer: C 
Explanation: Progressive elaboration is continuous planning with the expectation that project plans and details will change but become more refined as the project progresses. [Agile Estimating and Planning. Mike Cohn.] [Agile analysis and design]

14. Lisa is describing the four Agile Manifesto values to her co-workers. Of the following, which response lists one of its primary values?	
A. Comprehensive documentation
B. Processes and tools
C. Responding to change
D. Contract negotiation
Answer: C 
Explanation: The Agile Manifesto defines four values. The four values list primary values and secondary values, with primary values superseding secondary values. The values are 1) individuals and interactions over processes and tools, 2) working software over comprehensive documentation, 3) customer collaboration over contract negotiation, and 4) responding to change over following a plan. [Manifesto for Agile Software Development. Agile Alliance.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]

15. Of the following, which is NOT a secondary agile value per the Agile Manifesto?	
A. Appropriate processes and tools aid the development process
B. Documentation supports working software and appropriate processes and tools aid the development process
C. Products work as intended because of frequent delivery iterations
D. Contracts need to be negotiated and plans followed
Answer: C 
Explanation: The agile secondary values include: documentation of software, processes and tools, contract negotiation, and following project plans. [Manifesto for Agile Software Development. Agile Alliance.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]

16. How do actors - of use case modeling - and personas - of agile modeling - differ?	
A. There is no difference.
B. Actor descriptions will use photographs to provide further context and define several different people for one type of user, whereas persona descriptions typically are generic and concise.
C. Actor descriptions are typically much more detailed than persona descriptions.
D. Persona descriptions will use photographs to provide further context and define several different people for one type of user, whereas actor descriptions typically are generic and concise.

Answer: D 
Explanation:A persona is a notional user of the system under development. Being much more detailed than actors in use case modeling where generic user names are assigned (e.g., end user), personas try to elaborate on users with detailed descriptions to provide context to the developers. Some personas have such notional details as name, address, age, income, likes and dislikes, and other specific details. [User Stories Applied: For Agile Software Development. Mike Cohn.] [Agile analysis and design]

17. While Bernard is discussing to Stephanie his take on the most prominent risks the project is facing, Stephanie paraphrases what Bernard is saying to confirm her interpretation. What type of listening technique is Lisa using?	
A. Serial
B. Cooperative
C. Active
D. Collaborative

Answer: C 
Explanation: One communication technique to reduce misunderstanding and miscommunication is active listening. A well run agile project necessitates both good listeners and communicators, active listening helps work towards both of these necessities. The basics of active listening include: 1) Being present and focusing your attention on the speaker. 2) Taking notes instead of interrupting. 3) Paraphrasing to confirm and review what you have heard. 4) Summarizing the conversation once it has concluded for posterity. Using open ended questions, good body language, and silence can help improve listening skills. [Coaching Agile Teams. Lyssa Adkins.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]

18. What can an agile team do to foster an innovative, collaborative, and comfortable team space?	
A. Seat by team member function
B. Have plants, natural lighting, and comfortable seating available
C. Have yearly, individual performance reviews
D. Minimize team member interaction
Answer: B 
Explanation: A warm, welcoming environment that promotes effective communication, innovation, and motivated team members is an important aspect to consider when designing team space. Guidelines for a better agile team space include: collocation of team members; reduction of nonessential noise/distractions; dedicated whiteboard and wall space for information radiators; space for the daily stand-up meeting and other meetings; pairing workstations; and other pleasantries like plants and comfortable furniture. [Agile Retrospectives: Making Good Teams Great. Esther Derby, Diana Larsen, Ken Schwaber.] [Communications]

19. EVM is a frequently used project management abbreviation. What does CPI stand for in the EVM technique?	
A. Cost performance index
B. Correlated performance indicator
C. Cost performance indicator
D. Cost parametric index
Answer: A 
Explanation:EVM or earned value management is a management technique used to evaluate project performance with respect to cost and schedule. EVM relies on other common financial metrics like Budget At Completion (BAC), Actual Cost (AC), Planned Value (PV), Earned Value (EV), Cost Variance (CV), Schedule Variance (SV), Cost Performance Index (CPI), and Schedule Performance Index (SPI). [Agile Estimating and Planning. Mike Cohn.] [Metrics]

20. Select the response that defines an information radiator.	
A. Raw data organized into information to show data access and modification dates.
B. A highly detailed section of the agile project management waterfall plan.
C. A schema for organizing information into related datum.
D. A visual representation of project-related data to illustrate project status.
Answer: D 
Explanation:An information radiator is a visual representation of project status data. [Agile Software Development: The Cooperative Game – 2nd Edition. Alistair Cockburn.] [Communications]

21. Select the response that lists one of the five core risk areas that can impact a project.	
A. Productivity variation
B. Cost variation
C. Budget variation
D. Schedule variation
Answer: A 
Explanation:The five core risk areas include: productivity variation (difference between planned and actual performance); scope creep (considerable additional requirements beyond initial agreement); specification breakdown (lack of stakeholder consensus on requirements); intrinsic schedule flaw (poor estimates of task durations), personnel loss (the loss of human resources). [The Software Project Manager's Bridge to Agility. Michele Sliger, Stacia Broderick.] [Risk management]

22. Erica is working for a kitchen tools manufacturing project, which is intended to make modern cooking ovens. This project is very important for the company as well as for Erica's career. In an effort to articulate agile best practices to upper management, which three parameters of the agile triangle will Erica emphasize?	
A. Value, cost, constraints
B. Schedule, scope, constraints
C. Value, quality, constraints
D. Cost, quality, value
Answer: C 
Explanation: The agile triangle includes value, quality, and constraints as its parameters. [Agile Project Management: Creating Innovative Products – 2nd Edition. Jim Highsmith.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]

23. EVM is a frequently used project management abbreviation. What does AC stand for in the EVM technique?	
A. Actual cost
B. Average cost
C. Analysis cost
D. Abbreviated cost
Answer: A 
Explanation:EVM or earned value management is a management technique used to evaluate project performance with respect to cost and schedule. EVM relies on other common financial metrics like Budget At Completion (BAC), Actual Cost (AC), Planned Value (PV), Earned Value (EV), Cost Variance (CV), Schedule Variance (SV), Cost Performance Index (CPI), and Schedule Performance Index (SPI). [Agile Estimating and Planning. Mike Cohn.] [Metrics]

24. Select a method that is commonly used to help prioritize user stories.	
A. Cost-to-schedule matrix
B. Cost-to-value matrix
C. Cost-to-constraint matrix
D. Cost-to-risk matrix
Answer: B 
Explanation: An agile team must always face the prioritization of product features in its product backlog. From release planning to iteration planning, an agile team must prioritize the user stories/features of its product to ensure that high-quality and high-value features are developed first to help facilitate an optimized and early return on investment (ROI). An agile team typically prioritizes requirements or user stories/features in terms of relative value and risk; value is defined by the customer (i.e., customer-value prioritization). Two common methods to prioritize product features are: MoSCoW and Kano. The MoSCoW method categorizes features into 'Must have,' 'Should have,' 'Could have,' and 'Would have' features. The Kano method categorizes features into 'Must haves (threshold),' 'Dissatisfiers,' 'Satisfiers,' and 'Delighters.' Must haves are features that are requisite. Dissatisfiers are features that adversely impact perceived value and should be eliminated. 'Satisfiers' are features that increase perceived value linearly, where the more you add the more the customer is pleased, but are not required, and 'Delighters' are features that increase perceived value exponentially to please the customer. To prioritize features based on risk, a risk-to-value matrix can be used. A risk-to-value matrix has four quadrants, with the horizontal axis having low and high value, and the vertical axis having low and high risk. User stories are assigned to one of the four categories/quadrants: low-value, low-risk; low-value, high-risk; high-value, low-risk; high-value, high-risk. A cost-to-value matrix can also be made in this manner. All prioritization in agile is 'relative,' meaning that the priority of one user story is relative to other user stories and not prioritized on a fixed scale. [Lean-Agile Software Development: Achieving Enterprise Agility. Alan Shalloway, Guy Beaver, James R. Trott.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]

25. Why is an empowered team considered an important team attribute in agile?	
A. Empowered teams take responsibility of the product and thus have a strong focus on delivering value.
B. Empowered teams remove themselves from being responsible of product quality in order to reduce association with project failure.
C. Empowered teams need extensive management involvement in order to understand customer need
D. Empowered teams adapt slowly to changing requirements and therefore can reduce scope-creep risk.
Answer: A 
Explanation:Empowered teams - ones that are self-organizing and know how to solve problems with minimal management involvement - are a cornerstone of the agile methodology. An agile team feels empowered when it collectively assumes responsibility for the delivery of the product (i.e., taking ownership). [Coaching Agile Teams. Lyssa Adkins.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]

26. What is one method that can be used to improve communication for a team that cannot be collocated?	
A. Setting up an e-mail distribution list
B. Setting up an internal memorandum system
C. Setting up a virtual team room
D. Setting up a fax machine system

Answer: C 
Explanation: A high-performance agile team is one that is ideally collocated for osmotic communication and face-to-face interaction. However, collocation isn't always feasible in today's multinational environment. For distributed teams, several practices are available to provide the best form of effective communication in the absence of being collocated: team intranet sites, virtual team rooms, and video conferencing over e-mail when possible. Geographic separation, especially on a world-wide scale, causes the team to consider language and cultural differences, and time zone differences. [The Art of Agile Development. James Shore.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 2]

27. What person in the agile framework "empowers the team to be self-organized and self-disciplined?"	
A. Customer
B. Business analyst
C. Product owner
D. Project leader

Answer: D 
Explanation:A common misconception in agile is that an agile team does not need a leader. In fact, all agile teams need a leader, but the way in which the leader leads is fundamentally different than the typical traditional project manager/project leader method. Some have theorized that this misconception stems from the desired 'self-organizing' quality of the agile team. And although the 'self-organizing' agile team is empowered to take ownership and responsibility of the product and make some decisions itself, it nevertheless requires a leader to help provide guidance, mentoring, coaching, problem solving, and decision making. Some key aspects required of an agile leader include: empowering team members to decide what standard agile practices and methods it will use; allowing the team to be self-organized and self-disciplined; empowering the team members to make decisions collaboratively with the customer; inspire the team to be innovative and explore new ideas and technology capabilities; be a champion of and articulate the product vision to team members so it will be motivated to accomplish the overall objective; remove any obstacles and solve any problems the team may face in its effort; communicate and endorse the values and principles of agile project management to stakeholders that may be unfamiliar with agile; ensure that all stakeholders, including business managers and developers, are collaborating effectively; and, be able to adapt the leadership style to the working environment to ensure that the agile values and principles are effectively upheld. [The Art of Agile Development. James Shore.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]

28. Select a technique that promotes agile 'knowledge sharing.'	
A. Couple programming
B. Pare programming
C. Pair programming
D. Duo programming
Answer: C 
Explanation: In agile, effective 'knowledge sharing' is a critical factor for success. It involves the near real time communication of key information among all team members and stakeholders. To promote knowledge sharing, agile uses standard practices built into its process, such as using generalized specialists/cross functional teams, self-organizing and self-disciplined teams, collocation, daily stand-up meetings, iteration/sprint planning, release planning, pair programming and pair rotation, project retrospectives/reflection, and on-site customer support. And, of course, the sixth principle of Agile is " The most efficient and effective method of conveying information to and within a development team is face-to-face conversation." In this sense, Agile prefers and encourages collocation for all stakeholders and team members for the simple fact that face-to-face conversation is the best method of communication and, in turn, effective knowledge sharing. [Becoming Agile: …in an imperfect world. Greg Smith, Ahmed Sidky.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]

29. EVM is a frequently used project management abbreviation. How is SV calculated?	
A. SV = EV - PV
B. SV = BAC - AC
C. SV = PV - EV
D. SV = BAC - PV
Answer: A 
Explanation:EVM or earned value management is a management technique used to evaluate project performance with respect to cost and schedule. EVM relies on other common financial metrics like Budget At Completion (BAC), Actual Cost (AC), Planned Value (PV), Earned Value (EV), Cost Variance (CV), Schedule Variance (SV), Cost Performance Index (CPI), and Schedule Performance Index (SPI). SV is the difference between what a project has earned to date and what it was planned to earn to date (i.e., SV = EV - PV). [Agile Estimating and Planning. Mike Cohn.] [Metrics]

30. Of the following responses, which is NOT a community value per the PMI agile community of practice community charter?	
A. Courage
B. Humble
C. Openness
D. Honesty
Answer: B 
Explanation: The following are community values of the PMI agile community of practice community charter: Vision, Servant Leadership, Trust, Collaboration, Honesty, Learning, Courage, Openness, Adaptability, Leading Change, Transparency [PMI Agile Community of Practice Community Charter. Project Management Institute.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]

31. Which of the following is the best definition of value-based decomposition and prioritization?	
A. The decomposition of iterations into intervals that are in turn prioritized by value.
B. The decomposition of story points into intervals that are in turn prioritized by value.
C. The decomposition of user stories into tasks that are in turn prioritized by value.
D. The decomposition of release plans into intervals that are in turn prioritized by value.
Answer: C 
Explanation: In iteration planning, an agile team, collaboratively with the customer, chooses user stories to include for development. Although the user stories are prioritized in the product backlog initially during release planning, an agile team and customer should review prioritization based on progressive elaboration (i.e., gained knowledge and perspective). Prioritization is often based on value and risk and can be performed using the MoSCoW or Kano method and through the use of risk-to-value and cost-to-value matrices. An agile team performs decomposition to subdivide user stories into more manageable tasks so that it may estimate task time. Tasks for an iteration may also be prioritized based on value, similar to how user stories are prioritized. [Lean-Agile Software Development: Achieving Enterprise Agility. Alan Shalloway, Guy Beaver, James R. Trott.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]

32. Select the response that holds one of Ron Jeffries three Cs used to help define user stories.	
A. Collaboration
B. Card
C. Creative
D. Customer-driven
Answer: B 
Explanation: Ron Jeffries' three Cs for user story definition are card, conversation, confirmation. [User Stories Applied: For Agile Software Development. Mike Cohn.] [Planning, monitoring, and adapting]

33. Of the three project buffer methods - square root of the sum of squares, critical chain project management method (CCPM), and halving the sum of most likely estimates - which typically provides the most adequate buffer	
A. Square root of the sum of squares
B. Square of the sum of squares
C. Critical chain project management method (CCPM)
D. Halving the sum of most likely estimates
Answer: A 
Explanation:The agile practitioner should follow several rules of thumb when estimating a project buffer: 1) Only use a buffer if the project has more than 10 user stories, 2) The square root of the sum of squares method has shown to provide the most accurate buffer, 3) the estimate buffer should be at least 20% of the total project duration, 4) In the absence of sufficient data. like worst case scenario estimates, you can use the halving of most likely estimates to estimate a project buffer. [Agile Estimating and Planning. Mike Cohn.] [Agile estimation]

34. Jules, as an agile mentor, has been encouraging the team to spend some quality time together to build a sense of community. What is Jules doing when he provides this mentoring?	
A. Motivating the team
B. Criticizing the team
C. Restructuring the team
D. Working the team
Answer: A 
Explanation:Having a motivated team is essential for any project, regardless of whether it is agile or not. Motivated teams work together better, have strong productivity, and exceed expectations. Some simple steps to increase motivation are 1) spending quality time together; where team members get to know one another on a personal level to build a sense of community, 2) providing feedback, mentoring and coaching; where team members are congratulated and thanked on jobs well done and also mentored or coached to improve in skill and capability, and 3) empowerment; where the team is empowered to make many key decisions which, along the way, builds trust and shows that leadership believes in the capabilities of the team. [The Art of Agile Development. James Shore.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]

35. What agile estimation technique is sometimes conducted in silence and particularly useful for quickly estimating the relative work effort of large product backlogs?	
A. Affinity estimating
B. Planning game
C. Planning poker
D. SMART
Answer: A 
Explanation:Affinity estimating is a method to predict the work effort, typically in story points, of developing a user story. It is particularly useful for large product backlogs. Although several methods exist, the basic affinity estimating model involves sizing user stories on a scale from small to large. The scale can be a Fibonacci sequence or t-shirt sizes and is typically taped to a wall in a large conference room. Participants then attach their user stories to the wall as estimates. It is often done in silence and has several iterations until the user stories have been estimated. [The Art of Agile Development. James Shore.] [Agile estimation]

36. User stories are a common artifact across many agile frameworks. Which framework can generally be credited with their origin?	
A. Crystal
B. FDD
C. Scrum
D. XP
Answer: D 
Explanation:XP is generally considered to be the originator of user stories. [User Stories Applied: For Agile Software Development. Mike Cohn.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 2]

37. Of the following responses, which is a community value per the PMI agile community of practice community charter?	
A. Hasty
B. Servant Leadership
C. Curt
D. Motivating
Answer: B 
Explanation: The following are community values of the PMI agile community of practice community charter: Vision, Servant Leadership, Trust, Collaboration, Honesty, Learning, Courage, Openness, Adaptability, Leading Change, Transparency [PMI Agile Community of Practice Community Charter. Project Management Institute.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]

38. Which of the following is an agile principle per the Agile Manifesto?	
A. Individuals and interactions
B. Customer collaboration
C. Responding to change
D. Using working software as the primary measure of progress.
Answer: D 
Explanation:The Agile Manifesto defines 12 supporting principles. Agile principles include 1) Our highest priority is to satisfy the customer through early and continuous delivery of valuable software. 2) Welcome changing requirements, even late in development. Agile processes harness change for the customer's competitive advantage. 3) Deliver working software frequently, from a couple of weeks to a couple of months, with preference to the shorter timescale. 4) Business people and developers must work together daily throughout the project. 5) Build projects around motivated individuals. Give them the environment and support they need, and trust them to get the job done. 6) The most efficient and effective method of conveying information to and within a development team is face-to-face conversation. 7) Working software is the primary measure of progress. 8) Agile processes promote sustainable development. The sponsors, developers, and users should be able to maintain a constant pace indefinitely. 9) Continuous attention to technical excellence and good design enhances agility. 10) Simplicity--the art of maximizing the amount of work not done--is essential. 11) The best architectures, requirements, and designs emerge from self-organizing teams. 12) At regular intervals, the team reflects on how to become more effective, then tunes and adjusts its behavior accordingly. [Manifesto for Agile Software Development. Agile Alliance.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]

39. Lisa is describing the four Agile Manifesto values to her co-workers. Of the following, which response lists a secondary value?	
A. Working software
B. Customer collaboration
C. Responding to change
D. Contract negotiation
Answer: D 
Explanation:The Agile Manifesto defines four values. The four values list primary values and secondary values, with primary values superseding secondary values. The values are 1) individuals and interactions over processes and tools, 2) working software over comprehensive documentation, 3) customer collaboration over contract negotiation, and 4) responding to change over following a plan. [Manifesto for Agile Software Development. Agile Alliance.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]

40. Which of the following responses is NOT an Agile Manifesto value or principle regarding communication?	
A. Face-to-face communication whenever possible
B. Delivering working software frequently
C. Customer collaboration over contract negotiation
D. Individuals and interactions over processes and tools
Answer: B 
Explanation: The Agile Manifesto developed by the Agile Alliance covers 4 values and 12 principles. The four values are: 1) individuals and interactions over processes and tools, 2) working software over comprehensive documentation, 3) customer collaboration over contract negotiation, and 4) responding to change over following a plan. The 12 principles are: 1) focusing on satisfying the customer, 2) welcoming change, 3) delivering working software frequently, 4) ensuring that business people and developers work together, 5) motivating the individuals involved in development, 6) using face-to-face communication whenever possible, 7) working software as the primary measure of progress, 8) maintaining a constant pace of development, 9) paying continuous attention to technical excellence and good design, 10) aiming for simplicity, 11) using self-organizing teams, and 12) regularly reflecting on how to become more effective. [Manifesto for Agile Software Development. Agile Alliance.] [Communications]
