
PMI ACP

Free PMI-ACP exam dumps 120 Quest

1. Which of the following BEST describes ROTI?
A. Measure of product backlogs remaining
B. Measure of quality of features delivered in an iteration
C. Measure of required effort to deliver in an iteration
D. Measure of effectiveness of the retrospective meeting
Answer: D 
Explanation: Return on Time Invested (ROTI) is used to measure the effectiveness of the retrospective meetings from the team members' perspective.

2. Technical debt is the gap between a product's actual cost of change (CoC) and its optimal CoC. Managing technical debt helps ensure reliable delivery today and ready adaptation to tomorrow's customer needs. When can Technical Debt occur?
A. During Initial Development
B. Ongoing Maintenance
C. During enhancement
D. During all the above mentioned times
Answer: D 
Explanation: Technical debt can arise during initial development, ongoing maintenance (keeping a product at its original state), or enhancement (adding functionality).

3. Which of the following is NOT a characteristic of Agile project manager?
A. Manages daily tasks of the team members
B. Assumes different leadership styles for different stages of team formation
C. Allows team to self-manage
D. Facilitates collaboration
Answer: A 
Explanation: Agile Project Manager does not manage the daily tasks of team members as teams in Agile are self organizing.

4. For a Retrospective meeting, the seating arrangement should be such that there is enough space for people to move comfortably. Which of the following is a preferable seating arrangement for a retrospective meeting?
A. Circle or semicircle of chairs
B. Theatre style arrangement
C. Tables arranged in U-shape
D. Meeting Room
Answer: A 
Explanation: circle or semicircle of chairs encourages participation because people can see each other. Classroom or theater-style arrangements stifle participation. Staring at the back of someone else’s head isn’t conducive to conversation. Tables can be a physical barrier that becomes a psychological barrier. Avoid rooms with an immovable conference table in the middle. That big ol’ table will inhibit creative collaboration. This isn’t a board meeting, after all. Tables arranged in a U-shape with a big gulf in the middle create distance and make it hard to move around.

5. If we plan to work in a two-week iterations with thirteen iterations during the project and the team’s velocity will be twenty story points or ideal days per iterations, what will the size of the total project in story points be?
A. 13
B. 20
C. 260
D. 200
Answer: C 
Explanation: The size of the total project will be 13 x 20 = 260 story points

6. What does acronym DRY stand for?
A. Don't Repeat Yourself
B. Don't Reject Yourself
C. Do Repeat Yourself
D. None of the above
Answer: A 
Explanation: This clever name for a well-known principle comes from Dave Thomas and Andy Hunt. Don’t Repeat Yourself is more than just avoiding cut-and-paste coding. Eliminating duplication decreases the time required to make changes. You need only change one part of the code. It also decreases the risk of introducing a defect by making a necessary change in one place but not in another.

7. Which of the following technique of Scrum requires that every slice of functionality created by the developers be complete?
A. Team Collaboration
B. Sashimi
C. Scrum tool
D. Ability
Answer: B 
Explanation: Scrum uses the sashimi technique to require that every slice of functionality created by the developers be complete. All of the requirements gathering and analysis, design work, coding, testing, and documentation that constitute a complete product are required to be completed in every Sprint and demonstrated in the Sprint increment of functionality. Sprints are kept short enough that the stakeholders don’t lose interest in the project before the Sprints are completed. And stakeholders can see that they have an opportunity to redirect the project at the start of every Sprint to optimize the value they derive from the project. At the end of every Sprint, stakeholders see new functionality. Models, requirements, and internal artefacts might be of use to the developers, but they are never shown to the stakeholders.

8. What is MOST true about Participatory Decision Making?
A. It is a technique that involves all the affected parties
B. It is just a meeting with no outcomes
C. It only involves the customer and the Product Manager
D. It is a technique based on the wishes of the Scrum Master
Answer: A 
Explanation: It is a technique that involves all the affected parties

9. Team 1 has been asked to complete work on Item 10 story and deliver it to Team 2 so that they can initiate work on Item 12 story, which is dependent on completion of Item 10 story. The leader of Team 1 decides to insert a buffer that protects the start date on Item 12 story against delays in the completion of Item 10 story. This buffer is known as,
A. Feeding Buffer
B. Iteration Buffer
C. Story Buffer
D. Release Buffer
Answer: A 
Explanation: The Feeding buffer protects the start date on Item 12 story against delays in the completion of Item 10 story.

10. Sometimes stories are too small. A good approach for tiny stories, common among Extreme Programming teams, is to combine them into larger stories that represent from about a half-day to several days of work. The combined story is given a name and is then scheduled and worked on just like any other story. Which of the following are NOT examples of small stories?
A. Bug Reports
B. Bugs
C. User Interface Changes
D. A & C
Answer: B Explanation: A story that is too small is typically one that the developer says she doesn't want to write down or estimate because doing that may take longer than making the change. Bug reports and user interface changes are common examples of stories that are often too small.

11. Which of the following BEST describes Task Board?
A. The task board is always a white board
B. It is a great tool to show the project trend
C. It serves the dual purpose of giving the team a convenient mechanism for organizing their work and a way of seeing at a glance how much work is left.
D. Task Boards plot the Velocity
Answer: C Explanation: Task Board serves the dual purpose of giving the team a convenient mechanism for organizing their work and a way of seeing at a glance how much work is left. It may not always be a white board, it can be a cork board or cardboard too.

12. Wideband Delphi is a repeatable process that can be used :
A. To generate estimate
B. To create a story
C. For implementation purpose
D. To motivate the team
Answer: A 
Explanation: Wideband Delphi is a technique that is used to generate estimation.

13. Which of the following is NOT an attribute of a Good Story?
A. Testable
B. Large
C. Independent
D. Negotiable
Answer: B 
Explanation: A good story has six attributes - Independent, Negotiable, Valuable to users or customers, Estimatable, Small and Testable

14. A story estimated at one story point actually took two days to complete. How much does it contribute to velocity when calculated at the end of the iteration?
A. One Point
B. Three Points
C. Two Points
D. Cannot be calculated
Answer: C 
Explanation: 

15. In the Agile Team Stages of Shu Ha Ri, what does 'Ha' stand for?
A. Break the rule
B. Follow the rule
C. Be the rule
D. None of the above
Answer: A 
Explanation: One good model for mastering anything (if that’s possible) comes from martial arts. A martial arts student progresses through three stages of proficiency called Shu Ha Ri. Shu: Follow the rule. Ha: Break the rule. Ri: Be the rule.

16. What does 'R' stand for in ARCS, a criteria for evaluating Instructional designs by J.M. Keller?
A. Relevance
B. Repeatable
C. Recording
D. Right
Answer: A 
Explanation: J. M. Keller, an expert in motivation and learning, developed criteria for evaluating instructional designs. The criteria are Attention, Relevance, Confidence/Competence, Satisfaction—ARCS for short. Choose activities that help people stay engaged so they don’t drift off (Attention) and that are relevant to the goal (Relevance). You want activities that people can accomplish successfully (Confident/Competence). Finally, make sure activities fit into the overall design so people think the retrospective is a good use of their time (Satisfaction).

17. As per the Kano Model of customer satisfaction, which features are MOST important for the product to be successful?
A. Exciters
B. Linear Features
C. Delighters
D. Threshold
Answer: D 
Explanation: Threshold features are those that must be present in the product for it to be successful. They are often referred to as must-have features.

18. Which of the following defines the splitting of a story or a feature into smaller, easier-to-estimate pieces?
A. Decomposition
B. Disaggregation
C. Theme
D. Epic
Answer: B 
Explanation: Disaggregation refers to splitting a story or feature into smaller, easier-to-estimate pieces. If most of the user stories to be included in a project are in the range of 2-5 days to develop, it will be very difficult to estimate a single story that may be 100 days.

19. Which of the following is NOT true about Retrospective?
A. It helps decide how team will work in the future
B. It helps to reflect and learn from the past
C. It allows the team to own and drive their development process
D. It decides who will work on the next project
Answer: D 
Explanation: Retrospective is a meeting where a team looks back on a past period of work so that they can learn from their experience and apply this learning to future projects.

20. Affinity Estimating is a technique many teams use to quickly and easily estimate a large number of user stories. What should be the minimum size for the items in the Product Backlog?
A. 20
B. 40
C. 8
D. 5
Answer: A 
Explanation: The Affinity Estimating exercise is best conducted on Product Backlogs larger than 20 items. It is best when you have at least 40 items which allows for groupings to easily become apparent.

21. Of the listed options, which BEST describes User Stories?
A. Support tools for analysis
B. IEEE 830
C. Use Cases
D. Interaction Design Scenarios
Answer: A 
Explanation : 

22. Which of the following is NOT a principle from the Agile Manifesto?
A. Our highest priority is to satisfy the customer through early and continuous delivery of valuable software.
B. Business people and developers must work together daily throughout the project.
C. Continuous attention to technical excellence and good design does not enhance agility.
D. Working software is the primary measure of progress.
Answer: C 
Explanation: Continuous attention to technical excellence and good design enhances agility.

23. Which of the following will NOT assist in Critical Problem solving during the project?
A. Ask probing questions
B. Use Active Listening
C. Use Reflective Listening
D. Injecting ideas
Answer: D 
Explanation: During critical problem solving, you can ask probing questions, use active and reflective listening, Lead to an answer but one should avoid injecting their own ideas.

24. What is the successful response option at Conflict Level 1 : Problem to Solve ?
A. Collaboration
B. Consensus
C. Safety
D. A&B
Answer: D 
Explanation: Successful response options at Level 1 are, Collaboration- Seeking a win-win situation. Consensus- Learning where every team member’s head is with regard to the issue and, in time, arriving at a decision everyone can back.

25. John and Joseph are working in the same room. John is programming and Joseph is having some discussion with Kim. John gets to hear their conversation and gets enough information to know that Joseph has talked about some idea with Kim. What kind of communication is this referred to as?
A. Push Communication
B. Osmotic Communication
C. Pull Communication
D. Active Listening
Answer: B 
Explanation: While writing, reading, typing, or talking, we pick up traces of the ongoing sounds around us, using some background listening mode, even though we are not consciously paying attention. If someone says something interesting, we may perk up and join the conversation. Otherwise, the sound goes through some background processing, either just above or just below our conscious level. In some cases, we register enough about the conversation to be able to develop what we need directly from memory. Otherwise, we may recall a phrase that was spoken, or perhaps only that a particular person was discussing a particular topic. In any case, we can ask about it. This taking in information without directly paying attention to it is like the process of osmosis, in which one substance seeps from one system, through a separator, into another. Osmotic communication further lowers the cost of idea tran sfer.

26. At a Retrospective meeting, a few issues are highlighted by the team. Who is responsible for solving these issues?
A. The Scrum Master
B. Product Owner
C. Stakeholders
D. Team
Answer: D 
Explanation: Agile teams are self organizing and can find solutions to their problems with ease.

27. A methodology that is based on solutions or sequences of steps that is known to work for the discipline is known as,
A. Normative
B. Rational
C. Heuristic
D. Participative
Answer: A 
Explanation: Normative methodologies are based on solutions or sequences of steps known to work for the discipline. Electrical and other building codes in house wiring are examples. In software development, one would include state diagram verification in this category.

28. Having problems does not indicate a problem in itself, so welcome problems because they bring with them the chance for the team to overcome, grow, and become stronger together." As an Agile Coach, which are the multiple perspectives to analyse to detect the symptoms for the problem?
A. Process Level
B. Quality and Performance Level
C. Team dynamics dimension
D. All of the above
Answer: D 
Explanation: The multiple perspectives to analyze are , ? The process level: How are we doing with agile? ? The quality and performance angle: How can the team produce better? ? The team dynamics dimension: How can the team become a better team?

29. According to DeMarco, Fragmented knowledge workers may look busy but a lot of their business is just thrashing. The minimum cost penalty is :
A. 15%
B. 10%
C. 5%
D. 25%
Answer: A 
Explanation: The minimum cost penalty is 15%.

30. When can a plan be changed in Agile Management?
A. At the end of the Iteration
B. When we have learned something new
C. At the Daily Meeting
D. You cannot change once the plan is prepared
Answer: B 
Explanation: In Agile, you can change the plan when something new is learned or when it is known that a mistake is to be avoided

31. What is the normal time estimate for a research story?
A. 1 day
B. 1 hour
C. Half an hour
D. 1 iteration
Answer: A

32. What do you mean by Throughput?
A. Is the amount of production over time
B. Is the number of features the team can develop in a particular amount of time.
C. Is the number of features released during a Release
D. Is the number of defects rectified during a Release
Answer: B 
Explanation: Throughput is the number of features the team can develop in a particular amount of time.

33. Which of the following documents defines the functional and non-functional requirements that the system should meet to deliver the vision, prioritized and estimated?
A. Prioritized Sprint
B. Vision Box
C. Product Backlog
D. Sprint Review Meet
Answer: C 
Explanation: The Product Backlog defines the functional and nonfunctional requirements that the system should meet to deliver the vision, prioritized and estimated.

34. Which of the following charts shows the total number of story points completed through the end of each iteration?
A. Iteration burndown chart
B. Cumulative story point burndown chart
C. Daily Burndown chart
D. Burn up chart
Answer: B 
Explanation: A cumulative story point chart is useful because it shows the total number of story points completed through the end of each iteration.

35. Agile Teams use Planning Poker for estimation. Which of the following is NOT true about Planning Poker?
A. It combines expert opinion, analogy, and disaggregation into an enjoyable approach to estimating that results in quick but reliable estimates.
B. Participants include all of the developers on the team
C. The team for Planning Poker should not exceed more than 10 participants
D. The highest estimate is considered the final estimate
Answer: D 
Explanation: If estimates differ, the high and low estimators explain their estimates.

36. The retrospective meeting on previous iteration should last not more than,
A. 30 minutes
B. 60 minutes
C. 10 minutes
D. 5 minutes
Answer: B 
Explanation: The retrospective meeting on previous iteration should be maximum of one hour.

37. To detect problems at the process level, The team uses a questionnaire that lists required elements and qualities that are the basic ingredients of agile. From this, we consider anew whether the team truly adheres to their agile process. This questionnaire is referred to as,
A. Health Check
B. Form
C. Questionnaire
D. Checklist
Answer: A
Explanation : Correct Answer is A.

38. Spike solutions are small standalone programs that demonstrate what you’ve learned. Which of the following types of spike will you use if you need to test an approach to your production code?
A. Development Spike
B. Design Spike
C. Scheduling Spikes
D. Iteration Spikes
Answer: B 
Explanation: If you need to test an approach to your production code, Perhaps you want to see how a design possibility will work in practice, or you need to see how a persistence framework will work on your production code.
V

39. DSDM uses MoSCoW technique to create the prioritized requirements list. In MoSCoW technique, 'M' stands for :
A. Medium
B. Must Have
C. Must Not Have
D. Minimum Marketable Features
Answer: B 
Explanation: DSDM popularized the MoSCoW prioritisation scheme, deriving its name from the first letters of its labels of “Must…”, “Should…”, “Could…”, “Would like to have, but not this time.” Under MoSCoW, we have some easier-to-defend categories. “Must-have” requirements or features are fundamental to the system; without them, the system does not work or has no value. “Should have’s” are important--by definition, we should have them for the system to work correctly; if they are not there, then the work-around will likely be costly or cumbersome. “Could have’s” are useful net additions that add tangible value, and “Would like’s” are the “also-ran” requests that are duly noted--but unlikely to make the cut.

40. Which are the three coach styles?
A. Teaching, Coaching and Advising
B. Coaching, Mentoring and Advising
C. Coaching, Informator, Advising
D. Mentoring, Teaching and Advising
Answer: A 
Explanation: The three coach styles are Teaching, Coaching, and Advising.

41. One of your stakeholder is interested in viewing the project progress but he is not interested in details. Which of the following report can you share with this stakeholder?
A. Weekly demo
B. Vision Statement
C. Release plan
D. Burn up chart
Answer: D 
Explanation: Burn-up chart is an excellent way to get a bird’s-eye view of the project. It shows progress and predicts a completion date. Most teams produce a burn-up chart when they update their release plan.

42. Who specifies Acceptance Tests in an Agile Project?
A. Customer
B. Programmer
C. Developer
D. Product Manager
Answer: A 
Explanation: Because the software is being written to fulfil a vision held by the customer, the acceptance tests need to be specified by the customer. The customer can work with a programmer or tester to actually create the tests, but minimally the customer needs to specify the tests that will be used to know when a story has been correctly developed


43. One of your stakeholder wants more detail than the vision statement provides, but not the overwhelming detail of the release and iteration plans. Which of the following progress report will you share with this stakeholder?
A. Roadmap
B. Status email
C. Iteration plan
D. Productivity chart
Answer: A 
Explanation: Some stakeholders may want more detail than the vision statement provides, but not the overwhelming detail of the release and iteration plans. For these stakeholders, consider maintaining a document or slide deck that summarizes planned releases and the significant features in each one.

44. Which of the following defines Elapsed Time?
A. Is the same as Ideal Time
B. Is the amount of time that passes on a clock or perhaps a calendar
C. Is the amount of time that something takes when stripped of all peripheral activities
D. Is the amount of time the team spent on the iteration
Answer: B 
Explanation: Elapsed Time Is the amount of time that passes on a clock or perhaps a calendar.

45. When a team member approaches the Coach with a complaint about another team member, what conflict resolution technique should the Coach use?
A. Two-step intervention path
B. Face to Face
C. Three-step intervention path
D. Confronting
Explanation : Correct Answer is C.

46. Feature X has a value of 12 and the total value of all features is 35. If the feature is estimated to cost 56%, what is the priority of this feature using relative weighting?
A. 0.34
B. 0.61
C. 1.64
D. 0.625
Answer: B 
Explanation: The priority of the feature is determined by dividing the priority %by the cost %. Hence the answer = (12/35)/(0.56) = 0.61.

47. How is the Retrospective meeting BEST conducted?
A. Set the stage, Gather data, Generate Insights, Decide on what to do, Close the Retrospective
B. Gather data, Generate Insights, Decide on what to do, Set the stage, Close the Retrospective
C. Set the stage, Gather data, Decide on what to do, Generate Insights, Close the Retrospective
D. Decide on what to do, Set the stage, Gather data, Generate Insights, Close the Retrospective
Answer: A 
Explanation: The correct sequence is Set the stage, Gather data, Generate Insights, Decide on what to do, Close the Retrospective

48. Which of the following BEST describes error-feedback ratio?
A. Time spend to fix the hard bugs
B. Number of defects corrected in a specific time
C. Number of errors predicted
D. Number of new defects injected when fixing existing defects
Answer: D 
Explanation: Error-feedback ratio is the number of new defects injected when fixing existing defects (e.g., 20 new defects generated in fixing 100 defects would be an error-feedback ratio of 20%).

49. How do you best describe the primary role of an Agile leader?
A. Manage WBS, schedule and cost of project
B. Manage stakeholders
C. Manage work allocation to team members
D. Manage teams without managing their tasks
Answer: D 
Explanation: Agile leaders do not have to manage the tasks of the team members.

49. Assuming one-week iterations and a team of four developers, how many iterations will it take the team to complete a project with 27 story points if they have a velocity of 4?
A. 7
B. 4
C. 6
D. 24
Answer: A 
Explanation: Number of Iterations = 27/4 = 6.75 ~7

50. Name the XP technique where two people pair; one person who codes is the driver and the other person who thinks is the Navigator?
A. Pair Programming
B. Planning Poker
C. Planning Technique
D. Coding Technique
Answer: A 
Explanation: Pair Programming -- When you pair, one person codes—the driver. The other person is the navigator, whose job is to think.

51. Decision Framing focuses majorly on,
A. Identifying types of decisions that need to be made
B. Stakeholders involved in the decision making process
C. Delegating decision making process
D. Manager taking the decision
Answer: B 
Explanation: Decision framing focuses on who gets involved in the decision process. Managers who make decisions without input from subordinates and peers make poor decisions. Engineers who make decisions without input from managers and peers make poor decisions. Who makes the decision is less important than getting the right people involved in the decision process.


52. Which of the following is NOT true about the Iteration Demos?
A. It’s a concrete demonstration of the team’s progress
B. The demos help the team be honest about its progress.
C. Iteration demos are a closed affair and are shown only to a selected set of stakeholders
D. The demo is an opportunity to solicit regular feedback from the customers
Answer: C 
Explanation: Iteration demos are open to all stakeholders, and some companies even invite external customers to attend.

53. Which of the following is a STORY?
A. "Full-screen demo option for job fair"
B. "Automate integration build"
C. "Deploy to staging server outside the firewall"
D. "Improve performance"
Answer: A 
Explanation: "Automate integration build" does not represent customer value, hence not a story. "Deploy to staging server outside the firewall" describes implementation details rather than an end result, and it doesn’t use customer terminology, hence not a story. "Improve performance" has no clear completion criteria, hence not a story.

54. Which of the following factor will not assist in improving the project velocity?
A. Pay down Technical Debt
B. Offload Programmer duties
C. Reduce customer involvement
D. Provide needed resources
Answer: C 
Explanation: Customer Involvement should be improved to improve the project velocity.

55. Which of the following BEST describes Horizontal Market Software?
A. Developed for many organizations
B. Developed and used across many industries
C. Developed for a dedicated customer
D. Developed for one organization
Answer: B 
Explanation: software that’s intended to be used across a wide range of industries. The rows of shrinkwrapped software boxes at your local electronics store are a good example of horizontal-market software. So are many web sites.


56. At the second level of conflict, i.e. Disagreement, Team members distance themselves from one another to ensure they come out OK in the end or to establish a position for compromise they assume will come. They may talk offline with other team members to test strategies or seek advice and support. What becomes as important as solving the problem?
A. Self protection
B. Satisfy self ego
C. Aim to win
D. None of the above
Answer: A 
Explanation: At level 2, self-protection becomes as important as solving the problem. Team members distance themselves from one another to ensure they come out OK in the end or to establish a position for compromise they assume will come. They may talk offline with other team members to test strategies or seek advice and support.

57. What financial return parameter will be BEST for comparing the values of two different cash flow streams?
A. Internal Rate of Return
B. Payback Period
C. Discounted Payback Period
D. Compound Interest
Answer: A 
Explanation: Internal Rate of Return (IRR) is used to express the return on project in % terms when comparing two different cash flow streams.

58. In a Fixed Price contract, the risk is beared by,
A. Supplier
B. Customer
C. Product Owner
D. Project Team
Answer: A 
Explanation: Obvious risk is on the side of the supplier. If the estimates are wrong, the project will lose money. Less obvious risks are the change request game, through which the supplier negotiates additional revenue through scope changes. If the supplier had badly underestimated the effort or risk, or quoted an unrealistically low price, the losses can even threaten the existence of the supplier, which also presents a problem to the customer.

59. Self-organization implies a reliance on internal motivation of the team rather than external motivation. This is referred to as,
A. Delegatory management
B. Measurement based management
C. Democratic management
D. Autocratic management
Answer: A 
Explanation: Self-organization implies a reliance on internal motivation of the team rather than external motivation (i.e., a measurement target). Author Austin calls this delegatory management as contrasted with measurement-based management. He goes on to say, that "measurement-based management is in conflict with delegatory management. There is a negative interaction because of the implicit message of distrust that a measurement system conveys by the fact of its existence.

60. A meeting where a team looks back on a past period of work so that they can learn from their experience and apply this learning to future projects is popularly known as?
A. Retrospective
B. Sprint Planning Meeting
C. Sprint Review Meeting
D. Status Meeting
Answer: A 
Explanation: Retrospective is the meeting where a team looks back on a past period of work so that they can learn from their experience and apply this learning to future projects.

61. Who performs Value Point estimating?
A. Finance Team
B. Scrum Team
C. Product Team
D. Development Team
Answer: C 
Explanation: Value Point estimation is done by the Product Team.

62. Who performs Value Point estimating?
A. Finance Team
B. Scrum Team
C. Product Team
D. Development Team 
Answer: C 
Explanation: Value Point estimation is done by the Product Team.
 
63. Which of the following techniques would you use to detect problems within a process?
A. Sprints
B. Burn Up charts
C. Burn Down charts
D. Health checks
Answer: D 
Explanation: Health checks, often in the form of a questionnaire, lists required elements and qualities that jog our minds to help us remember the basic ingredients of agile. They help us determine how well the team is adhering to Agile methods.

64. Which of the following tests verify that units and combinations of units work together to perform the desired operations?
A. Unit tests
B. Component tests
C. Exploratory Tests
D. Usability tests
Answer: B 
Explanation: Component tests verify that units and combinations of units work together to perform the desired operations.

65. In absence of the Product Owner, who should assume the Product Owner's responsibilities at the Sprint planning meeting?
A. Scrum Master
B. Team
C. Person selected by the Product Owner
D. Person selected by the team
Answer: A 
Explanation: When the Product Owner is not present, the Scrum Master will take on the responsibility to prepare Product Backlog for the Sprint planning meeting.

66. Which of the following is NOT included in the 'Story cards information'?
A. Estimated Value Points
B. Story description
C. Story dependencies
D. Velocity
Answer: D 
Explanation: Story cards information include Story name, Story description, Estimated work effort, Estimated value points, Requirements uncertainty, Story dependencies, Acceptance tests. Velocity is a measure of a team's rate of progress per iteration.

67. A Retrospective can be as short as 15 minutes or as long as 1 hour. The duration of the Retrospective can be dependent on all of the following EXCEPT :
A. Length of the Iteration
B. Level of conflict or controversy
C. Size of the team
D. Seniority of the Product Owner
Answer: D 
Explanation: Of all the listed options, the length of the Retrospective is not dependent on the seniority of the product owner. The length of the retrospective can be dependent on Length of Iteration, Level of conflict or controversy, size of the team and complexity (of technology, organization of the team, relationships with external department)

68. Which of the following correctly defines 'Quantity of Function'?
A. Scope measured in terms of user stories, use cases, requirements, or features
B. Expressed as functionality produced for the time and effort
C. Expressed in terms of defect rate
D. Amount of effort expended in person-months
Answer: A 
Explanation: Quantity of function is, scope, measured in terms of user stories, use cases, requirements, or features (depending on a particular situation). In software, these may be measured ultimately as objects, modules, classes, or lines of code.

69. In a complete Product Planning structure, which of the following denotes the product planning structure with a medium range timeframe, story level of detail and capability commitment?
A. Release
B. Story
C. Roadmap
D. Wave
Answer: D 
Explanation: Wave is the Product Planning structure with Medium range time frame (3 months) with Story level capability and Capability commitment.

70. What are the four key terms by which the iterative part of Agile is defined?
A. timeboxed, releasable, agility and incremental
B. Iterative, feature-based, timeboxed, and incremental
C. Feature-based, timeboxed, agility and incremental
D. None of the above
Answer: B 
Explanation: Iterative development means that we build a partial version of a product and then expand that version through successive short time periods of development followed by reviews and adaptations. Feature-based delivery means that the engineering team builds features of the final product or, particularly with industrial products, at least a close representation of the final product (such as a simulation model). Iterations are constrained to produce a result within a certain period of time—a timebox (as short as 1–4 weeks for software). Timeboxes force closure; they force us to make something concrete, often before we are quite ready. Incremental development means that we build these products such that they could be deployed at the end of one or more of the iterations.

71. Which of the following statements are NOT TRUE regarding Agility?
A. Agility is the ability to balance flexibility and stability
B. Agility is the ability to both create and respond to change in order to profit in a turbulent business environment
C. Agility is avoiding planning and lack of structure
D. Agility is ability to deliver customer value while dealing with inherent project unpredictability and dynamism
Answer: C 
Explanation: Agility is the ability to both create and respond to change in order to profit in a turbulent business environment. It is the ability to balance flexibility and stability.

72. There are different types of Retrospectives. These are Release Retrospectives, Project Retrospectives, Iteration Retrospectives and Surprise Retrospectives. What are Surprise Retrospectives?
A. Is conducted when an unexpected event changes your situation
B. Is conducted at the end of each Iteration
C. Is conducted half way of each project
D. Is suggested by the Scrum Master
Answer: A 
Explanation: Surprise Retrospective is conducted when an unexpected event changes your situation. It gives you a chance to reflect more deeply on your experiences and condense key lessons to share with the rest of the organization.

73. If your release is 12 iterations away, your velocity is 14 points, your risk exposure is one iteration and with a 10% chance, how many points will you have finished?
A. 154
B. 110
C. 86
D. 92
Answer: A 
Explanation: Using the following formula, risk_adjusted_points_remaining = (iterations_remaining - risk_exposure) * velocity / risk_multiplier --> points remaining = (12 - 1) * 14 = 154 points 10 percent chance: 154 / 1 = 154 points.

74. Which of the following reports visually shows the remaining estimated workload over the course of the project?
A. Product Backlog Burndown Report
B. Gantt Chart
C. Product Backlog
D. Sprint Chart
Answer: A 
Explanation: The Product Backlog Burndown report graphs remaining estimated workload over the course of the project. Workload at the start of each Sprint is measured by summing all open Product Backlog work estimates.

75. Every team needs to constantly evaluate and make appropriate adaptations in the following four areas:
A. Product value, Product quality, Team performance, Project status
B. Product value, Product quality, Team performance, Organization status
C. Product quality, Team performance, Project status, Project deliverables
D. Product value, Product Features, Team performance, Project status
Answer: A 
Explanation: Every team needs to constantly evaluate and make appropriate adaptations in the following four areas: Product value, Product quality, Team performance, Project status

76. What is the BEST tool for tracking the progress of the project and evaluating the ROI?
A. Sprint Backlog
B. Product Backlog
C. Iteration Backlog
D. None of the above
Answer: B 
Explanation : Correct Answer is B.

77. Which of the following is NOT true about Kanban ?
A. A Kanban System visualises some unit of value, such as User Story, Minimal Marketable Feature or Plain Old Requirement
B. A Kanban System manages the flow of these units of value, through the use of Work In Process limits.
C. Kanban is same as a Task Board
D. It is a key tool in Lean Manufacturing
Answer: C 
Explanation: A Kanban System visualises some unit of value. This unit of value could be a User Story, Minimal Marketable Feature, Plain Old Requirement or something else. This is different from a task-board, which generally focuses on visualising the current tasks.

78. What is the relative contribution of feature X to the project if it has a value of 12 and the total value of all features is 35?
A. 0.38
B. 0.34
C. 2.91
D. 14.91
Answer: B 
Explanation: To calculate the relative contribution of each feature, divide its value by the sum of the Total Value of all features. Hence, relative contribution of feature X = 12/35 = 0.34.

79. What is the relative contribution of feature X to the project if it has a value of 12 and the total value of all features is 35?
A. 0.38
B. 0.34
C. 2.91
D. 14.91
Answer: B 
Explanation: To calculate the relative contribution of each feature, divide its value by the sum of the Total Value of all features. Hence, relative contribution of feature X = 12/35 = 0.34.

80. What is the process of defining and prioritizing the nonfunctional requirements for scaling known as?
A. Decomposition
B. Staging
C. Stanking
D. Prioritizing
Answer: B 
Explanation: The process of defining and prioritizing the nonfunctional requirements for scaling is called staging. Staging occurs prior to the start of the first Sprint and takes just one day. During this day, the nonfunctional scaling requirements for this particular project are determined and placed in the Product Backlog.

81. You have been assigned a New Project that is large, complex and uncertain. As a Project Manager, you will be using agile project management. Which of the following will you select while creating your team?
A. Team is expandable with the project
B. Large Team
C. Functional Manager is responsible for the team
D. None of the above
Answer: D 
Explanation: As per Agile methodology, it is best to work with small teams staffed by talented and experienced people and increase the number only when required.

82. Team A finished 43 story points in their last two-week iteration. Team B is working on a separate project and has twice as many developers. They also completed 43 story points in their last two-week iteration. What can you infer from this?
A. The story points of one team are not comparable to the story points of any other team.
B. Team A is twice as productive as Team B
C. Team A should have more people on the team
D. Team B has the management support
Answer: A 
Explanation: The story points of one team are not comparable to the story points of any other team.

83. Who should participate in Iteration Planning?
A. Customer, Iteration Manager, Developers, Testers
B. Product Manager, Iteration Manager, Developers, Testers
C. Entire Project Team
D. Product Specialists, Customer, Iteration Manager, Developers, Testers
Answer: C 
Explanation: The entire project team—product manager, product specialists, customers, developers, testers, iteration manager, project leader—should participate in the iteration planning session as it provides everyone with the context for work to be accomplished during the iteration. Functional manager participation can help the team better understand strategic priority issues and demonstrates commitment to and support of the project.

84. Which of the following is NOT a Closed Story?
A. A recruiter can review resumes from applicants to one of her ads.
B. A recruiter can delete an application that is not a good match for a job.
C. A recruiter can manage the ads she has placed
D. A recruiter can change the expiration date of an ad
Answer: C 
Explanation: "A recruiter can manage the ads she has placed." This is not a closed story: Managing the ads she's placed is not something that is ever completely done. Instead, it is an ongoing activity.

85. Which of the following is NOT a Closed Story?
A. A recruiter can review resumes from applicants to one of her ads.
B. A recruiter can delete an application that is not a good match for a job.
C. A recruiter can manage the ads she has placed
D. A recruiter can change the expiration date of an ad
Answer: C 
Explanation: "A recruiter can manage the ads she has placed." This is not a closed story: Managing the ads she's placed is not something that is ever completely done. Instead, it is an ongoing activity.

86. A technique defined by Dean Leffingwell and Don Widrig for use cases is also used for Prioritization. This is a voting scheme where each stakeholder is given 100 points that he or she can use for voting in favour of the most important requirements. How they distribute the 100 points is up to them: 20 here, 10 there or even all 100 on a single requirement if that is their sole priority. This method is known as:
A. Monopoly Money
B. 100-Point method
C. Requirements Prioritization Money
D. Agile Prioritization
Answer: B 
Explanation: The 100-Point Method was originally developed by Dean Leffingwell and Don Widrig for use cases and is used for prioritization as well. It is a voting scheme where each stakeholder is given 100 points that he or she can use for voting in favour of the most important requirements. How they distribute the 100 points is up to them: 20 here, 10 there or even all 100 on a single requirement if that is their sole priority.

87. Which of the following is NOT done as part of Planning in Agile Project Management?
A. Risk Management
B. Product Vision
C. Slack
D. Done - Done
Answer: D 
Explanation: Done-Done is part of releasing.

88. Which of the following correctly defines the role of the Scrum Master?
A. Achieves initial and ongoing funding for the project by creating the project’s initial overall requirements
B. Is responsible for the Scrum process, for teaching Scrum to everyone involved in the project
C. Is responsible for developing the functionality
D. Is responsible for the Product Backlog
Answer: B 
Explanation: The ScrumMaster is responsible for the Scrum process, for teaching Scrum to everyone involved in the project, for implementing Scrum so that it fits within an organization’s culture and still delivers the expected benefits, and for ensuring that everyone follows Scrum rules and practices.

89. In XP, the code goes through four levels of completion. Which of the following states the right sequence?
A. Broken, Build, Ready for demo, Ready to release
B. Build, Ready for demo, Broken, Ready to release
C. Build, Ready for demo, Ready to release, Broken
D. Broken, Build, Ready to release, Ready for demo
Answer: A 
Explanation: your code goes through four levels of completion: 1. Broken. This only happens in your sandbox. 2. Builds and passes all tests. All versions in your repository are at least at this level. 3. Ready to demo to stakeholders. Any version marked with the “Iteration X" tag is ready for stakeholders to try. 4. Ready to release to real users and customers. Any version marked with the “Release Y" tag is production ready.

90. Which of the following is NOT a technique for estimating a story?
A. Expert Opinion
B. Analogy
C. Disaggregation
D. Decomposition
Answer: D 
Explanation: Decomposition is not a technique for estimating.

91. An informative workspace broadcasts information into the room. Of the following, which does NOT constitute to Informative workspace?
A. Big Visible Charts
B. Process Improvement Charts
C. Hand Drawn Charts
D. SRS Document
Answer: D 
Explanation: An informative workspace broadcasts information into the room. Examples are Big Visible Charts, Process Improvement Charts, Hand Drawn Charts and others

92. When a group of people come together as a team, they go through a specific sequence of group dynamics. Which of the following depicts the correct sequence?
A. Forming, Norming, Performing, Storming
B. Forming, Storming, Norming, Performing
C. Forming, Performing, Storming, Norming
D. Storming, Norming, Performing, Forming
Answer: B
Explanation : Correct Answer is B.

93. Forecasting the Financial value of a theme is the responsibility of,
A. Analysts
B. Product Owner
C. Project Manager
D. All Team Members
Answer: D 
Explanation: Forecasting the financial value of a theme is the responsibility of the product owner but it is a responsibility shared with all other team members—programmers, testers, analysts, project managers, and so on.

94. Which of the following is NOT true regarding Scope in Agile Projects?
A. Scope management in agile is primarily a function of "rolling wave" planning and the management of the product backlog.
B. "Scope creep" doesn't exist in agile projects, because scope is expected to change
C. Scope is controlled through the use of the backlog, rolling wave planning, and the protection of the iteration.
D. Scope is verified by the Product manager, who is responsible for accepting or rejecting the features completed each iteration.
Answer: D 
Explanation: Scope is verified by the customer, who is responsible for accepting or rejecting the features completed each iteration.

95. When should be the BEST time for the team to estimate a task?
A. Throughout the Iteration
B. During Iteration Planning
C. Task estimates are decided by the Scrum Master
D. At the time of Iteration Planning as well as during the iteration
Answer: D 
Explanation: Project Team will estimate a task at the time of Iteration Planning as well as during the iteration planning.

96. A long term plan of action designed to achieve a particular goal is referred to as,
A. Tactical Planning
B. Strategic Planning
C. Goal Planning
D. Roadmap Planning
Answer: B 
Explanation: strategy is a long-term plan of action designed to achieve a particular goal. A tactic is a method employed to achieve a certain goal. The goal pursued by strategic planning is at a higher level of abstraction than the goals pursued by tactics.
Your Answer :  No option selected

97. The Levels of Listening by Whitworth states 3 Levels of listening. What does the third level, viz. Global listening refer to?
A. A hardwired connection is established between the coach and the speaker
B. The coach uses everything in the environment. Viz. speaker's tone of voice, posture, etc when listening at this level
C. The coach hears the speaker's words attentively
D. The coach only hears the global sounds and not the speaker's words
Answer: B 
Explanation: The coach uses everything in the environment when listening at Level III. The speaker’s tone of voice, posture, changes in room temperature, what noises are happening around them—all of these things are noticed and used by the coach.

98. Which of the following are MOST helpful in implementing collective code ownership in a team?
A. Version control
B. Pair programming
C. Continuous integration
D. Probability distribution
Answer: B 
Explanation : Correct Answer is B.

99. The primary task in release planning is assigning stories to iterations, chiefly on the basis of _______________________
A. Value and Risk
B. Risk and Priority
C. Customer Requirements
D. Team ability and Value
Answer: A 
Explanation: The primary task in release planning is assigning stories to iterations, chiefly on the basis of value and risk.

100. What is Stress Testing?
A. Ensures that all of the components of the user interface behave as expected
B. Is done to ensure an application that can be easily used
C. Is done to gauge how well the application will perform under various workloads
D. Where the application is subjected to extreme values of users, transactions, or anything else that may put the application under stress
Answer: D 
Explanation: Stress Testing is where the application is subjected to extreme values of users, transactions, or anything else that may put the application under stress.

101. For projects of similar size and type, projects that that have a cumulative defect removal rate at the nodal point, have the shortest schedules, have the lowest quantity of effort in terms of person-months, and have the highest levels of user satisfaction after release. What is this nodal point?
A. 15%
B. 95%
C. 35%
D. 50%
Answer: B 
Explanation: Capers Jones' widely heralded book on software measurement concluded that "a cumulative defect removal rate of 95% on a project appears to be a nodal point where several other benefits accrue". For projects of similar size and type, these projects have the shortest schedules, have the lowest quantity of effort in terms of person-months, and have the highest levels of user satisfaction after release.

102. During which project management phase are the product stories delivered?
A. Envision
B. Speculate
C. Explore
D. Adapt
Answer: B 
Explanation: During the Speculate phase, the product stories are delivered. This phase involves planning and delivering tested stories in a short iteration, constantly seeking to reduce the risk and uncertainty of the project.

103. What is the outcome of a Sprint Planning Meeting?
A. Sprint Backlog
B. Product Backlog
C. Iteration Backlog
D. None of the above
Answer: A 
Explanation: The outcome of Sprint Planning meeting is the Sprint Backlog.

104. Which of the following correctly defines the Complex Story?
A. A User Story that comprises of multiple shorter stories
B. A User Story that that users can mark as inactive
C. User story that is inherently large and cannot easily be disaggregated into a set of constituent stories.
D. It is not a Story
Answer: C 
Explanation: Epics typically fall into two categories - Compound Stories and Complex Stories. the complex story is a user story that is inherently large and cannot easily be disaggregated into a set of constituent stories.

105. In the design-the-box activity, the entire team, including product team members customers, breaks into groups of four to six people. Their task is to design the product box—front and back. Which of the following is NOT Included ?
A. Graphic
B. Feature Description
C. Operating Requirements
D. Competitor's product name and features
Answer: D 
Explanation: In the design-the-box activity, the entire team, including product team members customers, breaks into groups of four to six people. Their task is to design the product box—front and back. This involves coming up with a product name, a graphic, three to four key bullet points on the front to "sell" the product, a detailed feature description on the back, and operating requirements.

106. You are part of the team that developed software for the organization's own use in serving the hospital customers. At one point, the CEO realizes that with some enhancements the software could be used to provide the same services to health insurers. The team is asked to make the changes and is able to bring an entirely new source of revenue into the company because of what the new software enabled. Under what revenue stream is this feature classified?
A. New Revenue
B. Incremental Revenue
C. Retained Revenue
D. Operational Efficiencies
Answer: A 
Explanation: New Revenue is the return on the project due to a new opportunity.
Your Answer :  No option selected

107. Which of the following explains 'Retained Revenue'?
A. revenue due to a new opportunity
B. additional, incremental revenue from existing customers
C. revenue an organization will lose if the project is not performed.
D. Option A and C
Answer: C 
Explanation: Retained revenue refers to the revenue an organization will lose if the project is not performed.

108. Which of the following explains 'Retained Revenue'?
A. revenue due to a new opportunity
B. additional, incremental revenue from existing customers
C. revenue an organization will lose if the project is not performed.
D. Option A and C
Answer: C 
Explanation: Retained revenue refers to the revenue an organization will lose if the project is not performed.

109. What are the planning horizons in the planning onion that the agile teams are majorly involved in an Agile project?
A. Strategy, Portfolio, Product
B. Product, Release, Iteration
C. Release, Iteration, Day
D. Product, Iteration, Day
Answer: C 
Explanation: Most agile teams are only concerned with the three innermost levels of the planning onion, i.e. Release, Iteration and Day.

110. Which of the following does NOT explain Refactoring?
A. It is the process of changing the structure of code—rephrasing it— without changing its meaning or behaviour.
B. It is used to improve code quality
C. It eases adding new features
D. It reduces bugs drastically
Answer: D 
Explanation: Refactoring is the process of changing the structure of code—rephrasing it— without changing its meaning or behaviour. It’s used to improve code quality, to fight off software’s unavoidable entropy, and to ease adding new features.

111. In a project, all of the user stories are estimated and the sum of those estimates is 100 story points. Based on past experience, it is known that the team’s velocity is 9 story points per two-week iteration. How many iterations does the project need to complete the user stories?
A. 9
B. 11
C. 1
D. 90
Answer: B 
Explanation: Iterations = 100/9 = 11.1

112. Which report should NOT be shared with your stakeholders?
A. Defect reports
B. Status reports
C. Throughput reports
D. SLOC reports
Answer: D 
Explanation: Source Lines of Code (SLOC) reports should not be shared with the stakeholders, as they are flawed productivity metrics.

113. Intermediate points, usually from one month to three months apart that have both a project management and a technical function are known as,
A. Iteration burndown chart
B. Release
C. Wave
D. Roadmap
Answer: C 
Explanation: Waves, or milestones, are intermediate points, usually from one month to three months apart. Waves can have both a project management and a technical function. From a project management perspective, they provide a chance to review progress and make adjustments.

114. Activities are timeboxed processes that help the team move through the phases of the retrospective. Activities provide structure to help your team think together and have several advantages over freewheeling discussion. Activities don’t have to be elaborate or involved to be effective. Which of the following are NOT examples of activities that are useful in retrospectives ?
A. Brainstorming
B. Voting with Dots
C. Pair Interviews
D. Synergy
Answer: D 
Explanation: Activities don’t have to be elaborate or involved to be effective. Examples of activities that are useful in retrospectives include Brainstorming, Voting with Dots, doing Check-Ins, and performing Pair Interviews.

115. A verbal notice from one person to another, or to multiple people, that a milestone was reached is popularly known as,
A. Declaration Milestone
B. Publication
C. Announcement
D. Circular
Answer: A 
Explanation: The declaration milestone is a verbal notice from one person to another, or to multiple people, that a milestone was reached.

116. Which of the following charts shows the number of tasks completed each day of the iteration to monitor the progress?
A. Progression charts
B. Task Burndown chart
C. Task check off charts
D. Task charts
Answer: B 
Explanation: Many agile practitioners use a task burndown chart, which shows the number of tasks completed each day of the iteration to monitor progress.

117. A project with version control uses the version control system to mediate changes. It’s an orderly process in which developers get the latest code from the server, do their work, run all the tests to confirm their code works, then check in their changes. This process occurs several times a day for each pair. What is this process known as?
A. Version Control Management
B. Continuous Integration
C. Simple Integration
D. None of the above
Answer: B 
Explanation : Correct Answer is B.

118. A stand-up meeting is conducted at a pre-set time every day where the whole team stands in a circle. One at a time, each person briefly describes new information that the team should know. At the Daily Scrum, what is NOT discussed?
A. What did I do yesterday?
B. What are my tasks for the coming week?
C. What will I do today?
D. What problems are preventing me from making progress?
Answer: B 
Explanation: In the Daily Scrum, participants specifically answer three questions: 1. What did I do yesterday? 2. What will I do today? 3. What problems are preventing me from making progress?

119. Which one of the following phases of project management includes developing a capability and/or feature based release plan to deliver the vision?
A. Envision
B. Speculate
C. Explore
D. Adapt
Answer: B 
Explanation: Speculate phase includes developing a capability and/or feature based release plan to deliver the vision.

120. A set of related user stories that may be combined together and treated as a single entity for either estimating or release planning is referred to as,
A. Theme
B. Epic
C. Story
D. Combined Story
Answer: A 
Explanation: Theme is a set of related user stories that may be combined together and treated as a single entity for either estimating or release planning.

121. Teams utilizing unfamiliar technology may need time for training prior to a project's launch and time to establish a development environment. This training may be included :
A. In Iteration 0
B. As a new story
C. Is out of project scope
D. None of the above
Answer: A 
Explanation: Iteration 0 helps teams balance anticipation with adaptation. Recognizing that iteration 0 doesn't deliver customer value pressures the team to keep it short.

