1. On a particular project, product quality is being measured at regular intervals and is consistently below the acceptable level. In a Lean environment, how
should this problem be addressed?
A. The team should implement more rigorous testing at the end of each development cycle.
B. Management should direct the team on specific actions that they should take to improve quality.
C. Management should guide the team as it seeks to improve itself and reduce errors in the system.
D. The Project Champion should review the acceptable quality threshold to ensure that it is realistic.
Answer: C



2. In reference to Scrum, each sprint should produce:
A. An increment of potentially shippable product functionality.
B. Aset of documented product requirements and specifications.
C. Arelease with testable and measurable functionality.
D. An increment of potentially testable product functionality.
Answer: A



3. The primary purpose of a Sprint Review is for the team to:
A. Demonstrate what was accomplished during the sprint.
B. Discuss what went well, whatdidn't, and ways to improve.
C. Prioritize and estimate stories planned for the next sprint.
D. Individually provide status updates on user stories in progress.
Answer: A



4. On what should Agile estimates be based?
A. A Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) from each iteration aligned with the project management plan
B. A disciplined iteration schedule, which improves predictability, combined with reaction to changes
C. Ball park figures collected from past Agile projects with scopes similar to the current project
D. Initial resource breakdown based on the available person days in the full project duration
Answer: B



5. A value stream map is a tool used to identify the:
A. Waste across the entire process.
B. Highest value product features.
C. Most valuable team interactions.
D. Most likely flow of project risks.
Answer: A



6. When estimating initial velocity, the team should most likely:
A. Discuss among the team their expectations of how many story points they can address.
B. Use a Kanban workflow to identify steps and calculate velocity.
C. Use velocity of past iterations or make a calculated guess.
D. Discuss with the customer their expectation for the velocity of producing the product.
Answer: C



7. After three iterations, the problems impeding an Agile team appear to be similar in nature to problems faced in earlier iterations. Inspection of the
retrospectives for past iterations reveals information organized into columns entitled "What worked for us" and "What did not work for us. " Based on
this information, one can infer that the team did not capture:
A. user stories
B. milestones
C. action items
D. requirements
Answer: C



8. Which is the best option to improve project velocity?
A. Shield programmers from interruptions
B. Minimize customer involvement
C. Shorten the iteration length
D. Increase project team size
Answer: A



9. A company is starting to introduce Agile practices, and the project manager has been asked to identify how to introduce the new process. The project
manager's initial plan should be to:
A. Institute daily standup meetings immediately.
B. Communicate the Agile Manifesto to the team.
C. Balance teaching principles with Agile practices.
D. Rate the team's progress in learning new methods.
Answer: C



10. A project team is distributed across multiple countries, and they are having issues agreeing on what is being delivered and how it should be developed.
Which of the following should the project manager do to alleviate some of the tension between team members, break down cultural barriers, and
improve communication?
A. Ask the team to communicate only through email to clearly document issues.
B. Discuss this issue with senior management and recommend that the team be co-located.
C. Monitor performance and discuss the issues in detail at the next retrospective.
D. Hold daily standup meetings with the two teams at a time that works best for everyone.
Answer: D



11. The ScrumMaster and the Product Owner disagree on the value of a Product Backlog item. In order to resolve the disagreement, the first step the
ScrumMaster should take is to ask:
A. The Product Owner to clarify the requirement.
B. The business owner to resolve the problem.
C. The business analyst to research the product value.
D. Another project manager how to resolve the problem.
Answer: A



12. Which management style does Agile advocate?
A. Task
B. Team
C. Product
D. Performance
Answer: B



13. Collaboration can be defined as working together to jointly produce a deliverable or make a decision, whereas coordination is:
A. Agreeing on a due date.
B. Sharing information.
C. Agreeing on the design.
D. Pair programming.
Answer: B



14. Project managers use velocity to determine:
A. If the team is committing to an appropriate amount of work for the iteration.
B. How much work each team member is capable of completing during an iteration.
C. How much work teams that are similar in size are capable of completing during an iteration.
D. If the Product Owner is prioritizing work appropriately in preparation for iteration planning.
Answer: A



15. The most powerful capability of Scrum teams is that they:
A. Work in timeboxed sprints.
B. Are self-organized and empowered.
C. Work from a prioritized backlog.
D. Value individuals and interactions.
Answer: B



16. Which type of story would be used when an estimate is not available due to lack of knowledge of the technology required to implement the story?
A. Defect
B. Slack
C. Spike
D. Nonfunctional
Answer: C



17. What is the responsibility of an extreme Programming (XP) customer role?
A. Testing the daily increments of the software developed
B. Writing the stories and acceptance tests for each story
C. Planning and task allocation for the developer and tester
D. Interacting closely with users and representing the XP team
Answer: B



18. When is the ideal time to hold a retrospective?
A. Right after iteration planning
B. Just before iteration planning
C. At the start of the next release
D. During the iteration review/demo
Answer: B



19. Refactoring, as it applies to the practice of extreme Programming (XP), refers to:
A. Restructuring the estimate by applying a higher cost performance index during ¡°what if¡± analysis.
B. Modifying the project due to scope changes, resource availability, and cost and schedule variances.
C. Modifying the cost baseline due to an increased estimate at completion and a negative cost variance.
D. Restructuring of code so as to improve the code without changing its external behavior.
Answer: D



20. Which of the following would be most likely to assist when a customer has difficulty prioritizing stories?
A. Split the stories into smaller ones to allow the customer to choose the pieces that they want.
B. Have the team provide guidance into where their priorities lie to the customer.
C. Provide additional technical details to give the customer insight into technical challenges.
D. Have the team rewrite the stories with additional details to clarify requirements.
Answer: A



21. When interacting with team members, the Agile project manager should:
A. Ask team members to do things by phrasing the statement as a request rather than as a demand.
B. Ignore team member input and emotions when important decisions have to be made.
C. Proceed cautiously when requesting team members to do something likely to make them unhappy.
D. Disagree with the team based on the merit of the issue without considering how the team is feeling.
Answer: A



22. Which best describes the attributes of the IN VEST criteria in a user story?
A. Incremental, Net, Variation, Exceed, Scope, and Training
B. Interdependent, Nonfunctional, Value, Exploratory, Sprint, and Timebox
C. Innovation, Nested, Vision, Estimating, Scalable, and Team
D. Independent, Negotiable, Valuable, Estimable, Small, and Testable
Answer: D



23. A user story says that a product must be very fast. During the demo, the Product Owner is dissatisfied with the speed of the product. The most likely
reason that this occurred is because the user story was:
A. Too large.
B. Not estimated correctly.
C. Not testable.
D. Not descriptive of the value.
Answer: C



24. Team A is producing 61 points per iteration and Team B is producing 20 points per iteration. Team A has more senior engineers. A manager demands
that Team B match Team A's points in the next iteration. Based on this information, it is reasonable to tell the manager that:
A. it is impossible to compare two separate teams on points alone.
B. Team B's points will match Team A if Team B gets more senior engineers.
C. Team B must have help self-organizing so their points match Team A
D. Team B's points will increase if the Product Owner becomes more involved.
Answer: A



25. Which of the following is a list of valid Agile project planning practices?
A. Release planning, Iteration planning, and Estimation
B. Estimation, Spike Solutions, and Iteration planning
C. Iteration planning, Continuous Integration, and Estimation
D. Vision, Release planning, and Performance Optimization
Answer: A



26. Who is responsible for prioritizing the stories that will be included in the iteration?
A. ScrumMaster
B. Developer
C. Product Owner
D. Team
Answer: C



27. On a project using eXtreme Programming (XP), a customer test is a:
A. Technique to determine if the software is easy for customer use.
B. Tool for a customer to verify the business requirements.
C. Technique to determine if a customer will use a software feature.
D. Test for determining if a customer will purchase the product.
Answer: B



28. What is the best description of the relationship between Scrum and extremeProgramming(XP)?
A. XP is a component of Scrum.
B. The principles of each are often complementary.
C. Scrum is a component of XP.
D. The principles of each are often contradictory.
Answer: B



29. Agile project development processes typically:
A. Encapsulate analysis, design, code, and test within an iteration.
B. Document each business process individually and in detail.
C. Use a Gantt chart with well-defined activities, responsibilities, and time frames.
D. Map the iteration backlog to a Work Breakdown Structure (WBS).
Answer: A



30. Which of the following is an example of a visual aid used in Lean-Agile software development?
A. Business value delivered chart
B. Product technical specifications
C. Automated code coverage report
D. Scrum-of-Scrum report
Answer: A



31. Acceptance tests of user stories are specified by the:
A. Customer at the start of the iteration.
B. Customer as late as possible during the iteration.
C. Tester after the team has finished the coding.
D. Development team at the start of the iteration.
Answer: A



32. When an Agile project team receives an "emergency request" during an iteration, which is the best first step that the Agile project manager should take?
A. Stop work on unfinished user stories and work on the urgent request.
B. Call a team meeting and change the iteration scope to include the request.
C. Provide the customer with options provided by the project team.
D. Explain that the team cannot do the added work until the next iteration.
Answer: C



33. The ScrumMaster notices repeated friction between two team members in the Daily Scrum meetings.
The next step should be to:
A. Attempt to resolve the problem directly and immediately during a Daily Scrum meeting.
B. Schedule a meeting with them after a Daily Scrum meeting to explore and resolve the issue.
C. Ignore the friction because a self-organizing team must sort out team conflict issues.
D. Ask for new resources to replace them before the friction undermines the team's productivity.
Answer: B



34. What is the ideal approach for an Agile project manager to take when considering fractional assignments?
A. Do nothing, as fractional assignments will not impact project performance.
B. Allow resources to be assigned to no more than two projects at a time.
C. Only allow nonessential resources to be fractionally assigned.
D. Avoid them and have resources assigned to only one project at a time.
Answer: D



35. The team estimation game method mainly consists of a:
A. Pile of cards with user, capability, and value to be prioritized by the project team.
B. Spreadsheet with backlog issues to be prioritized and each to be given a prioritizationnumber.
C. White board session where iterations are estimated and related to the project road map.
D. Brainstorm session where resources are related to prioritized work packages.
Answer: A



36. According to the fundamental principles of Lean Management, errors result from:
A. Inadequate user requirements and documentation.
B. Misjudgment made by project teams and operations staff.
C. Flaws in development and production systems.
D. Insufficient management oversight of projects and operations.
Answer: C



37. What is one of the benefits of incremental delivery?
A. Value is delivered more quickly, as software can be released after every iteration.
B. More customers can be handled simultaneously, as each regularly receives a delivery.
C. Fewer bugs are introduced, as code is delivered to users more frequently.
D. Costs are reduced, as less verification is required to regression test each iteration.
Answer: A



38. Which of the following drivers is the most important factor in determining the order in which stories will be developed?
A. Relative cost
B. Customer value
C. Development effort
D. Dependencies
Answer: B



39. The smallest amount of functionality that delivers customer value is best described as a:
A. Function point analysis.
B. Right sized story.
C. Minimum marketable feature.
D. Userstory map.
Answer: C



40. The best reason for extreme character personas in writing user stories is to:
A. Identify errors in product design and testing.
B. Help identify user stories that would otherwise be missed.
C. Provide precision to support vague user concepts.
D. Provide value to the Sprint planning session.
Answer: B



41. In eXtreme Programming (XP), analysis, design, coding, and testing phases are done:
A. At the beginning of the iteration.
B. Every day.
C. In sequence.
D. Without documentation.
Answer: B



42. User stories are temporary artifacts. They are considered relevant until the:
A. Team completes them.
B. End of the project.
C. Release is complete.
D. End of the sprint.
Answer: A



43. In Agile projects, the technique in which planning is done at three distinct horizons is known as:
A. Monte Carlo Analysis
B. Portfolio Management.
C. DelphiTechnique.
D. Progressive Elaboration.
Answer: D



44. A common reason that a story may not be estimable is that the:
A. team lacks domain knowledge.
B. business needs are prioritized over the system design.
C. developers do not understand the tasks related to the story.
D. team has no experience in estimating.
Answer: A



45. For the best results in an Agile project, customers should:
A. set priorities and identify product features.
B. interview new team members for fit.
C. approve development plans and tasks.
D. set sprint and release schedules.
Answer: A



46. What is a high-level representation of the features or themes that are to be delivered in each release?
A. Release plan
B. Product roadmap
C. Iteration plan
D. Product Backlog
Answer: B



47. An Agile team expects a velocity of 8. During sprint planning, the stories were estimatedand prioritized in the following order:
Story A_4Story Points
Story B_2Story Points
Story C_3 Story Points
Story D_2Story Points
Which stories should the team include in Sprint 1, without splitting the stories?
A. Stories A, C, and D
B. Stories A, B, and C
C. Stories A, B, and D
D. Stories B, C, and D
Answer: C



48. Agile communication is effective because:
A. release and iteration planning keep team members aligned, daily synchronization eliminates confusion, and iteration demonstrations keep the team
focused on deliverables.
B. Agile communication methods focus on detailed, written requirements and specifications that are more complete and allow the team to manage
change more effectively.
C. the use of charts and diagrams over written reports creates clear, targeted communication, and customer involvement in monthly reviews eliminates
changes in requirements.
D. daily iteration planning allows change to be managed, and weekly standup meetings ensure that impediments are quickly identified and effectively
managed or removed.
Answer: A



49. The key elements of a user story in Agile development are:
A. a written description, the story points estimate, and the planned release.
B. conversations about the story, a written description, and success criteria about the story.
C. the story points estimate, conversations about the story, and an agreed priority.
D. tests to determine when the story is done, a written description, and the planned release.
Answer: B



50. In Agile risk management, a risk burndown chart is best used to:
A. Qualitatively analyze the probability of a risk occurring.
B. Track progress on risk reduction of technical risks.
C. Document the external risks that could impact the project.
D. Illustrate the project risk profile and new and changing risks.
Answer: D



51. In a vision meeting, the vision for the project is defined and presented by the:
A. management
B. project manager
C. customer
D. project team
Answer: C



52. In the Lean process, the focus is on:
A. Managing team efficiency.
B. Optimizing completed work across the process stream.
C. Using the optimal resources.
D. Cross training the team to eliminate bottlenecks.
Answer: B



53. What is the common communication bridge between the team and the Product Owner?
A. Burndown chart
B. Product Backlog
C. Scrum team meeting
D. Sprint release plan
Answer: B



54. Which of the following best describes a core belief of Agile?
A. The best customer feedback comes near the end of the project when there is working software to review.
B. Project status can be gauged by frequently reviewing completed milestones as reflected in the plan.
C. Working solutions are the most accurate way of seeing the progress of the effort.
D. Unique skill sets are harnessed when team members play different roles on a project.
Answer: C



55. Test-Driven Development (TDD) is a rapid cycle of:
A. Requirements, coding, and testing.
B. Testing, coding, and refactoring.
C. Testing, refactoring, and validation.
D. Requirements, coding, and refactoring.
Answer: B



56. A business analyst has identified a new risk in an Agile project. What is the best first step the business analyst should take regarding this risk?
A. Call a meeting with the project manager and senior management to determine how the risk will be managed.
B. Email the project manager and add it to the risk register so that it is discussed during the next daily standup.
C. Add the risk in a clearly visible location and ensure it is discussed after the next daily stand up.
D. Call an immediate meeting with all team members to discuss the newly identified risk.
Answer: C



57. What are the primary outputs of a release planning session?
A. Release vision, assumptions, action items, and iteration goals
B. Prioritized Product Backlog, risks, action items, and release goals
C. Estimated iteration velocities, risks, action items, and Release Backlog
D. Risks, action items, dependencies, and Release Backlog
Answer: D



58. Applying the Pareto rule when prioritizing the Product Backlog means that:
A. features that are lower priority are more likely to slip to the next iteration.
B. the value of a feature is not realized until the feature is complete.
C. more recent requests are usually more important to the business.
D. a small percentage of the work will provide a large percentage of the value.
Answer: D



59. At a strategic level, what is the most appropriate way for an Agile team to estimate a project?
A. Creating a strategic plan by estimating hours and days required
B. Using an abstract measurement to estimate Product Backlog items
C. Estimating source lines of code needed to implement the features
D. Taking an initial set of estimates and adding an appropriate risk factor
Answer: B



60. A development team has finished identifying the tasks they will be accountable for during the next sprint. Which of the following tools best provides
transparency into the progress throughout the sprint?
A. Burndown chart
B. Gantt chart
C. Hours expended chart
D. Management baseline chart
Answer: A



61. The term ¡°last responsible moment¡± refers to the moment at which:
A. the iteration testing deadline arrives and code testing must stop.
B. failing to make a decision eliminates an important alternative.
C. release planning is complete and the first iteration planning starts.
D. the implementation date is set and sponsor approval has been received.
Answer: B



62. Who is responsible for determining the business value of each feature?
A. Product Owner
B. Steering committee
C. ScrumMaster
D. Team
Answer: A



63. During the daily standup meeting, a team member states that an issue has been encountered. This leads to the team members getting into a problemsolving
discussion. How should the ScrumMaster respond?
A. Ask the team members to table the discussion until after the meeting is over.
B. If the item is really important, allow the discussion to expedite resolution of the issue.
C. Abruptly end the daily standup meeting and schedule another meeting to discuss the issue.
D. Ask the team how they would like to use the daily standup meeting for that day.
Answer: A



64. Risk exposure is the:
A. Funds set aside to contain the risk.
B. Probability a risk will occur.
C. Amount of money the risk will cost if it occurs.
D. Amount of damage to the project if the risk occurs.
Answer: A



65. When developing user stories, user expectations are best captured in what form?
A. Acceptance tests
B. Entrance criteria
C. Done criteria
D. Go and no-go limits
Answer: A



66. The most appropriate model for a geographically distributed project team is one in which the team is distributed across:
A. relatively few locations, with each location team comprised of a complete development group developing decoupled subsystems.
B. locations in the same time zone, working on the same systems while leveraging rich communication channels.
C. relatively few locations, and tasks are divided along functional lines with design in one location, coding in another, and testing in another.
D. many locations, with relatively few people at each location developing and testing decoupled subsystems.
Answer: A



67. What are three processes used to begin an Agile project?
A. Iterations, Product Road map Planning, and Number of Sprint Iterations
B. Visioning, Product Roadmap Planning, and Product Backlog Definition
C. Visioning, Product Backlog Definition, and Project Charter Creation
D. Burndown chart, Product Roadmap, and sprints'length
Answer: B



68. eXtreme Programming (XP) teams strive to avoid:
A. Incremental design and architecture.
B. Pair programming.
C. Manual regression testing.
D. Test-Driven Development (TDD).
Answer: C



69. Agile Earned Value Management (EVM) would be a valuable technique for managing a project because the:
A. project is in a CM MI-certified organization.
B. customer wants to maximize delivered value,
C. cost performance must be reported.
D. team is newly formed or new to Agile.
Answer: C



70. What is the role in an eXtreme Programming (XP) project that ensures the right project processes are applied?
A. Domain Expert
B. Product Owner
C. ScrumMaster
D. Coach
Answer: D



71. A common estimation unit for Agile projects is:
A. Lines of code.
B. Function points
C. Story points.
D. Use-case points.
Answer: C



72. In an Agile approach, project values are most effectively implemented when they are determined by the:
A. sponsor
B. team
C. project manager
D. methodology
Answer: B



73. Velocity is the:
A. total number of Product Backlog hours completed in an iteration divided by the number of developers.
B. measured rate at which teams turn Product Backlog items into running, tested features.
C. measured rate at which the project manager turns the Product Backlog into tested features.
D. total number of Product Backlog hours completed when developers work in pairs.
Answer: B



74. A ScrumMaster:
A. prioritizes the work for each iteration.
B. directs the activities of the team.
C. provides leadership, guidance, and coaching.
D. manages the project scope and budget.
Answer: C



75. When moving to Agile project management, a key factor for the project manager's success will be:
A. shifting from a controlling mindset to a facilitating mindset
B. directing the work in a more incremental fashion
C. only assigning tasks for the nextiteration
D. giving up control and rotating management through the team
Answer: A



76. On a team new to Scrum, two team members are disrupting the daily standup with a side conversation.
The ScrumMaster should:
A. wait until the standup is over and then talk to the disruptive team members.
B. immediately intervene to remedy the disruptive situation.
C. record the issue and then raise the issue at the Sprint Retrospective.
D. wait for the empowered, self-organizing team to resolve the issue.
Answer: B



77. Which of the following best represents both a principle of the Agile manifesto and a Lean method of simplicity?
A. Maximizing the amount of work not done
B. Delivering early and continuously
C. Welcoming changing requirements
D. Deciding at the last responsible moment
Answer: A



78. Who is responsible for the "definition of done"?
A. The team
B. The Product Owner
C. Management
D. Project manager
Answer: A



79. The purpose of a project burndown chart is to:
A. Identify and communicate upcoming milestones.
B. Display the level of effort and resources utilized.
C. Identify dependencies between sprints or iterations.
D. Display the remaining work across time.
Answer: D



80. Which of the following statements is an accurate value statement of the Agile Manifesto?
A. People and places over processes and guidelines
B. Customer collaboration over contract negotiation
C. Working software over complete specifications
D. Managing change over managing a plan
Answer: B



81. A ScrumMaster consistently holds Daily Scrums and keeps them to 15 minutes or less. The ScrumMaster brings a list of assigned tasks and checks the
status of each task with the relevant team members. The ScrumMaster then assigns new tasks for the day and ends the meeting. Is this an appropriate
approach to running Daily Scrums?
A. Yes, the ScrumMaster should get status updates and distribute new tasks to the team.
B. Yes, the ScrumMaster should hold Scrums daily and keep the time to 15 minutes or less.
C. No, the ScrumMaster should act in the role of facilitator to foster team self-organization.
D. No, the ScrumMaster should allow the Scrum to run as long as is required by the team.
Answer: C



82. Which of the following is part of the 12 practices defined in eXtreme Programming (XP)?
A. Risk management
B. Small releases
C. Project management
D. Project charter
Answer: B



83. Spike solutions are appropriate when:
A. the business requirements are vague or inadequate for an iteration.
B. a technology is understood well and has been used for a while, but needs a problem to be debugged.
C. there is insufficient time to refactor, but there is a need to resolve a specific problem.
D. a specific technicalNO:needs to be answered, stopping work on the spike as soon as it answers that question.
Answer: D



84. The velocity chart, storyboard, burndown chart, and impediment list are often communicated using:
A. Status reports.
B. Information radiators.
C. Portfolio presentations.
D. Project data packages.
Answer: B



85. An organization adopts Agile practices and implements an incremental delivery strategy. If implemented correctly, the company should recognize
improved:
A. procurement processes by requiring vendors to ship materials as needed.
B. project cost management by making incremental payments on contracts.
C. customer satisfaction by specifying project shipping dates in the contract.
D. project Return on Investment (ROI) by releasing individual features to market.
Answer: D



86. The advantage of face-to-face collaboration emphasized in eXtreme Programming (XP) is that it:
A. allows team members to use common language in their design and code.
B. delays feedback much more than scheduled inspections.
C. eliminates communication delays and misunderstandings.
D. allows team members to correct some mistakes on the fly.
Answer: C



87. What is used to provide a simple medium for gathering basic information about stories, recording high- level requirements, developing work estimates,
and defining acceptance tests?
A. Story card
B. Burndown chart
C. Retrospective
D. Storyboard
Answer: A


88. A high-performance Agile team:
A. is fully committed to team success yet respects the prescribed roles and titles of team members.
B. owns its decisions and commitments and is motivated to succeed at any cost.
C. is self-organizing, empowered to make decisions, and consensus-driven, with constructive disagreement.
D. produces a high volume of business value through intensive collaboration and avoidance of conflict.
Answer: C



89. When using Agile Earned Value Management (EVM), progress should be measured at which level?
A. Task
B. Iteration
C. Product
D. Release
Answer: D



90. Which of the following techniques best encourages osmotic communication?
A. Reviewing requirements frequently with the Product Owner
B. Having the Product Owner attend daily standups
C. Inviting the customer to attend every iteration demo 
D. None
Answer: D



91. The best approach to estimate the work on a project when using story points is to have:
A. Team members assign estimates by averaging Planning Poker cards.
B. The most senior team member prepare the estimates.
C. Two or three senior team members estimate and take the average of their times.
D. The team work together to agree on estimates in a group setting.
Answer: D



92. A technique showing Kanban work stages by comparing counted features over a time interval is called a/an:
A. Earned value system.
B. Fully integrated backlog.
C. Cumulative flow diagram.
D. Progressive elaboration.
Answer: C



93. Information transmission is greatest amongst team members who are working on:
A. Individual tasks in the same work area.
B. The same task through pair programming.
C. The same group of tasks individually.
D. Different tasks on the same project.
Answer: B



94. Which of the following is most appropriate to always participate in Planning Poker?
A. Product Owner
B. Stakeholders
C. Team members
D. Project manager
Answer: C



95. How does Empirical Process Control support Agile methodologies?
A. Testing, requirements, and adaptation
B. Testing, requirements, and change
C. Visibility, review, and testing
D. Visibility, inspection, and adaptation
Answer: D


96. The three questions asked at every Daily Scrum should be: "What have you accomplished since the last Daily Scrum?";"What are you planning to
accomplish between now and the next Daily Scrum?"; and:
A. What is preventing you from completing your work effectively?
B. What is yourcurrent performance velocity?
C. Are you on track to complete assigned story points?
D. How many story pointswill you complete this sprint?
Answer: A



97. In Agile projects, how are planning outputs shared with stakeholders?
A. Using the most highly visible method possible
B. On a need-to-know basis depending on role
C. According to the project communications plan
D. Through a series of stakeholder meetings
Answer: A



98. Which of the following is critical for the success of distributed Agile teams?
A. Cost containment
B. High volume of communication
C. Shared knowledge
D. None
Answer: D



99. Which technique is used by a project team to estimate the amount of work that can be done per iteration?
A. Velocity measurement
B. Relative prioritization
C. Planning Poker
D. Release planning
Answer: A



100. Which three criteria should be looked at when setting iteration length?
A. Time needed to complete a user story, time needed to build and test the stories, and product team acceptance of the stories
B. Timeframe in which the stories must be released, the cost to deliver the features to market, and product team acceptance of the stories
C. Delivering chunks of user-valued functionality, time needed to build and test the stories, and product team acceptance of the stories
D. Features that categorize the product, the time needed to complete the features, and the cost to deliver the features to market
Answer: B



101. Team velocity is used to:
A. Measure the percentage of features completed.
B. Judge productivity within the iteration.
C. Predict schedules for mature teams.
D. Give feedback on delivered value.
Answer: C



102. An Agile team best ensures product quality through:
A. The development team's use of pair programming.
B. Quality assurance's daily collaboration with the development team.
C. More frequent inspection after each iteration.
D. Feedback gathered during iteration retrospectives.
Answer: C



103. The Kaizen philosophy is change:
A. For the better.
B. Driven by process improvement.
C. Driven by teams.
D. Forsmallgroups.
Answer: D


104. Following chart lists stories for a release of an Agile project;

	Story	Story Points
	A	4
	B	5
	C	6
	D	5
	E	4
	F	6
	G	1

If the team completes Story A, Story B, and 50% of Story C for the first iteration, what is the team's velocity?
A. 9
B. 10
C. 12
D. 15
Answer: A



105. Following chart lists stories for a release of an Agile project;

	Story	Story Points
	A	4
	B	5
	C	6
	D	5
	E	4
	F	6
	G	1

If the velocity of the team is 10, how many iterations will be needed to complete all of the stories?
A. 3
B. 4
C. 5
D. 7
Answer: B



106. Since the last iteration, the team has grown from six members to 14 members. As a result, in the current iteration, the team room is crowded and
uncomfortable during the team's daily standup. It takes the team longer than the ideal amount of time to complete their standup, which creates problems
for the team's current schedule. Based on this information, the project manager should:
A. Move the standup to a conference call format so space is not a problem.
B. Increase the standup duration and update the team's calendars.
C. Assign each team member a maximum speaking time for future standups.
D. Split the team into sub teams and have them schedule separate standups.
Answer: B



107. Which type of estimate refers to estimating a story based on its relationship to one or more other stories?
A. Algorithmic
B. Computational
C. Triangulating
D. Rules of Thumb
Answer: A



108. A project team estimates that they should complete 30 story points in the current iteration. Partway through the iteration they realize that they will
complete 50 story points at their current rate. The team should:
A. Shorten the iteration to meet the estimated velocity.
B. Continue to work with the estimated velocity.
C. Increase their estimated velocity.
D. Release members to meet the estimated velocity.
Answer: D



109. For a critical project, a new team has been formed from various departments. The project manager should start team building by:
A. Creating a project charter, documenting roles and responsibilities of each member, and sending it to the team members.
B. Taking the team offsite for icebreaker sessions and other activities to ensure team members get to know each other.
C. Assembling the team and discussing roles and responsibilities of each member on the team.
D. Assembling the team and asking the members to achieve a milestone in a small iteration.
Answer: C



110. When are acceptance tests typically written for a user story?
A. After coding the story, but before user acceptance testing begins
B. After writing the story, but before coding begins
C. At the start of Product Backlog prioritization planning
D. After estimating the Product Backlog, but before Sprint planning begins
Answer: C



111. Which of the seven principles of software development is best intended to solve the problem of inventories causing hidden errors in the process?
A. Fast-Flexible-Flow
B. Optimize the Whole
C. Deliver Early and Often
D. Eliminate Waste
Answer: D



112. What do project reports show during the Sprint review meeting?
A. Estimates compared to the baseline
B. Actual results to the plan
C. Return on investment (ROI)
D. Earned value measurement (EVM)
Answer: C



113. The purpose of "setting the stage'' in a project retrospective is to:
A. Restate the goal of the meeting and create an open atmosphere.
B. Review the scope statement and summarize project results.
C. Elevate the team's morale and ensure that everyone participates.
D. Describe the next Iteration and discuss lessons learned.
Answer: A



114. A full cycle of design-code-verifyrelease practiced by extreme Programming (XP) teams is called:
A. Story
B. Timebox
C. Iteration
D. Burndown
Answer: C



115. In a Lean Software Development environment, the Project Leader strives to eliminate:
A. Work in Process (WIP) and bugs.
B. Delays and building what is not needed.
C. Defects and features with low value stream values.
D. Poor requirements and changing scope.
Answer: C



116. During iteration planning, the team is discussing the design for a user story. A team member states that a design document should be started since the
system is complex in nature. Another team member responds that in Agile there is no documentation. How should the ScrumMaster respond?
A. Agree that documentation should be avoided, since it slows the progress of the team.
B. Explain that interactions are valued over documentation, but documentation is not forbidden.
C. Ask the manager if the technical processes mandate that designs be documented.
D. Ask the Product Owner if it is acceptable for the resources to spend time on documentation.
Answer: B



117. For a "caves and commonroom arrangement, the most appropriate prerequisite is that the people in the room must be working on:
A. Whatever they choose.
B. Individual projects.
C. The same set of multiple projects,
D. The same project.
Answer: D



118. What key benefits might stakeholders realize from an Agile approach?
A. The ability to bypass the change-management process, inserting new requirements and changes directly into the team as they meet daily
B. The early and continuous delivery of valuable software, providing increased visibility and the opportunity for more frequent adjustments
C. Increased access to the project and less reliance on formal reports and status meetings to better understand the current work and the risks the team
is accepting
D. The team's flexibility to make changes mid-iteration as business needs or priorities change, increasing the ability of the team to meet project
commitments
Answer: B



119. What is the first thing that a team should do to estimate user stories for a project?
A. Sort the user stories according to priority.
B. Schedule a team meeting to understand them.
C. Define the story points measure.
D. Estimate through function point analysis.
Answer: C



120. Which term best describes an Agile project's approach to risk analysis?
A. Regression
B. Pareto
C. Qualitative
D. Monte Carlo
Answer: D



121. The primary purpose of a Sprint retrospective is for the team to:
A. Review stories planned for the next sprint and provide estimates,
B. Demonstrate completed user stories to the Product Owner.
C. Discuss what went well, what didn't, and ways to improve.
D. Individually provide status updates on user stories in progress.
Answer: C



122. Continuous integration ensures that a product is:
A. Ready to ship when all features are complete.
B. Delivered for testing at the end of each day.
C. Technologically ready to deploy at any time.
D. Deployed after final business approvals.
Answer: C



123. Which tool allows the Product Owner to focus on providing the greatest value and Return on Investment (ROI) to the organization?
A. Burn up chart
B. Product Backlog
C. Affinity estimate
D. Cost Benefit Analysis (CBA)
Answer: B



124. The best description of the purpose of the daily standup in Agile projects is to:
A. Resolve the key issues and risks that are likely to hinder project progress.
B. Provide insight and reassurance to the Product Owner to strengthen that relationship.
C. Inform the project lead of project status for reporting to stakeholders.
D. Raise the visibility of each person's work and to ensure the work is integrated.
Answer: D



125. Which are some of the most important benefits of an Agile team sitting together in a co-located, open environment?
A. Osmotic communication is reduced; space is used more efficiently; groups work together more effectively, and team dynamics are improved.
B. Costs are reduced as the need for conference rooms decreases, and the team can keep track of where members are more accurately.
C. Team members can be held more accountable for their time and effort, and pair programming is easier as people have less distance to move to sit
with their partner.
D. Communication is improved; wait-time and rework are reduced; barriers between groups break down, and groups gain respect for each other
professionally.
Answer: D



126. Based on the following figure, during Iteration 5, there was an increase in story point value (shown on the graph); however, the team completed all of the
work it promised to deliver in the iteration and existing estimates were not changed. From this information, one can inferthat:
A. Work was removed from the Product Backlog.
B. Work was added to the Product Backlog.
C. The team's velocity increased.
D. The team's velocity decreased.
Answer: B



127. Which of the following is a list of capabilities, features, and stories that the Product Owner has identified?
A. Burndown chart
B. Story card
C. Vision document
D. Backlog
Answer: D



128. Which layer of the product planning structure defines details at the capability or feature level?
A. Iteration
B. Roadmap
C. Release
D. Wave
Answer: C



129. In an Agile approach, at which meeting does a team examine the effectiveness of risk responses by conducting a risk audit?
A. Release planning
B. Sprint planning
C. Sprint Retrospective
D. Daily Scrum
Answer: C



130. A story point is the:
A. Relative measure of the size of a user story.
B. Duration it takes to complete a user story.
C. Priority of the user story in the backlog.
D. Business value of the user story.
Answer: A



131. According to the Agile Manifesto, which of the following describes the more valued items?
A. Customer collaboration, following a plan, working software, and individual interactions
B. Working software, individual interactions, responding to change, and comprehensive documentation
C. Individual interactions, working software, customer collaboration, and responding to change
D. Responding to change, individual interactions, processes and tools, and customercollaboration
Answer: C



132. When facilitated and managed well, the primary benefits of a project retrospective should be to:
A. Increase empowerment and enjoyment for the team.
B. Identify the most important issues for the sponsors.
C. Provide an open forum for team member complaints.
D. Allow the team to get ahead on release planning.
Answer: D



133. In a Lean project environment, visual controls:
A. Can be used by management for communicating specific corrective direction.
B. Are easy to use, reflect the team's progress, and show the team what to do next.
C. Are helpful while the team is forming but are less important for more experienced teams.
D. Should be kept to a minimum to avoid distracting the team from high-value activities.
Answer: A



134. How is the participatory design process characterized?
A. A well-planned and well-documented process is documented for each of the iterations in the project.
B. Users including project team members participate in the planning process for the project plan.
C. End users participate and assist in the design process from the beginning of the project.
D. A high level brainstorming process is conducted for the project team and the project sponsor.
Answer: C



135. What is one of the main benefits that Lean portfolio management provides to a business?
A. Maximizing work-in-progress
B. Quality and thoughtfulness
C. Line of sight to business needs
D. Maximizing multitasking
Answer: C



136. The purpose of the iteration retrospective is to:
A. Report progress of the work effort, what work will be done next, and review impediments to progress.
B. Prioritize the Product Backlog, generate development and testing estimates, and plan the next iteration.
C. Provide a demonstration of the features developed during the iteration, get feedback from users, and begin testing.
D. Identify what worked well, what did not work well, and what actions should be taken to improve the process.
Answer: D



137. Which answer best describes Wide Band Delphi (e. g. Planning Poker) estimating?
A. Team members provide story estimates individually and discuss their reasoning until a consensus on the estimate is reached.
B. Team performance on prior projects is analyzed, and actual hours and durations are used to determine estimates for similar user stories.
C. Team members apply relative sizing to each task, and story points are triangulated based on the other stories in the Sprint Backlog.
D. Team members assign a realistic and a pessimistic estimate to each story, and points are assigned based on the calculated average.
Answer: A



138. Retrospectives provide an opportunity for the team to:
A. Reflect at the end of every iteration and identify improvements that will increase the quality of the product.
B. Participate in a mandatory meeting to share status updates across the team and to ensure that everyone is on track.
C. Understand from the management if the project is achieving the Scope, Quality, Cost, and Schedule goals.
D. Set goals at the beginning of the iteration and identify requirements that can be delivered in that iteration.
Answer: A



139. Scrum practices are facilitated by the:
A. ScrumMaster.
B. Product Owner.
C. Project Sponsor.
D. Scrum team.
Answer: A



140. The process of reviewing, testing, and accepting implemented features is called:
A. Retrospective.
B. Stakeholder review.
C. Scope verification.
D. Iteration planning.
Answer: C



141. During which activity is the sequence of numbers 0, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13 often used?
A. Denoting development sequence
B. Estimating development hours
C. Indicating priority of a story
D. Estimating points of a story
Answer: C



142. A "Scrum of Scrums" meeting is:
A. Another name for the daily standup project meeting in a Scrum team.
B. Amechanism that coordinates multiple teams working on a single project.
C. Aproject meeting that happens twice every day across the Scrum teams.
D. An occasional leadership meeting that provides direction to multiple Scrum teams.
Answer: B



143. The cost estimation techniques used on Agile projects are:
A. Rule of thumb
B. Bottom-up
C. Parametric
D. Top-down
Answer: D



144.Estimating costs for an Agile project starts with which of the following types of meetings?
A. Project Retrospective
B. Steering Committee
C. Release Planning
D. Sprint Planning
Answer: C



145. Who is responsible for making sure that each user story is associated with at least one user role or persona?
A. User
B. Developer
C. Customer
D. Persona
Answer: C






