
1. Which of the following best defines Minimally Marketable Feature (MMF)?
A. A feature that has minimal NPV and a marketable IRR.
B. A feature that is relatively simple and will return value.
C. A feature that returns the most value to a customer.
D. A feature that has minimal IRR and a marketable NPV.
Answer: B 
Explanation: A Minimal Marketable Feature (MMF) is a software feature or product feature that is both minimal and marketable. 'Minimal' taking the meaning of simple and small or not complex. 'Marketable' taking the meaning of having some value, whether it is revenue generating or cost saving, that can be marketed or sold. [The Art of Agile Development. James Shore.] [Value based prioritization]

2. Which of the following best defines customer-value prioritization?
A. Prioritization of features based on product owner affinity.
B. Prioritization of features based on shareholder-value.
C. Prioritization of features based on product owner need.
D. Prioritization of features based on customer-value.
Answer: D 
Explanation:  Customer-value prioritization is a method for relative prioritization of product features based on customer-value for ordering the product backlog. When ordering the product backlog, it is also important to consider other aspects (e.g., associated risk, dependencies, etc.,) of features. [The Art of Agile Development. James Shore.] [Value based prioritization]

3. Select the best definition of net present value (NPV).
A. A metric used to evaluate the speed of an investment.
B. A metric used to evaluate the profitability of an investment.
C. A metric used to evaluate the velocity of an investment.
D. A metric used to evaluate the interest of an investment.
Answer: B 
Explanation: Net Present Value: A metric used to analyze the profitability of an investment or project. NPV is the difference between the present value of cash inflows and the present value of cash outflows. NPV considers the likelihood of future cash inflows that an investment or project will yield. NPV is the sum of each cash inflow/outflow for the expected duration of the investment. Each cash inflow/outflow is discounted back to its present value (PV) (i.e.,, what the money is worth in terms of today's value). NPV is the sum of all terms: NPV = Sum of [ Rt/(1 + i)^t ] where t = the time of the cash flow, i = the discount rate (the rate of return that could be earned on in the financial markets), and Rt = the net cash inflow or outflow. For example, consider the following two year period. The discount rate is 5% and the initial investment cost is $500. At the end of the first year, a $200 inflow is expected. At the end of the second year, a $1,000 is expected. NPV = -500 + 200/(1.05)^1 + 1000/(1.05)^2 = ~$597. If NPV is positive, it indicates that the investment will add value to the buyer's portfolio. If NPV is negative, it will subtract value. If NPV is zero, it will neither add or subtract value. [Agile Estimating and Planning. Mike Cohn.] [Value based prioritization]

4. Which of the following is a key responsibility of the product owner according to the scrum philosophy?
A. Pair programming assignments
B. Velocity
C. Return on investment
D. Quality control
Answer: C 
Explanation:  One of the key responsibilities of the product owner is the return on investment. [Coaching Agile Teams. Lyssa Adkins.] [Value based prioritization]

5. Which of the following best defines relative ranking/prioritization?
A. The ordering of a list of items based on a project-manager's definition of priority.
B. The ordering of a list of items based on NPV.
C. The ordering of a list of items based on NPV.
D. The ordering of a list of items based on a team-defined definition of priority.
Answer: D 
Explanation:  Relative ranking/prioritization involves ordering a list of items (e.g., user stories, epics, tasks, defects, etc.,) based on a team-defined definition of priority. [The Art of Agile Development. James Shore.] [Value based prioritization]

6. Select the best definition of return on investment (ROI).
A. A metric used to evaluate the speed of an investment.
B. A metric used to evaluate the efficiency of an investment.
C. A metric used to evaluate the velocity of an investment.
D. A metric used to evaluate the interest of an investment.
Answer: B 
Explanation: Return on Investment (ROI): A metric used to evaluate the efficiency of an investment or to compare efficiency among a number of investments. To calculate ROI, the return of an investment (i.e., the gain minus the cost) is divided by the cost of the investment. The result is usually expressed as a percentage and sometimes a ratio. The product owner is often said to be responsible for the ROI. [Agile Estimating and Planning. Mike Cohn.] [Value based prioritization]

7. Calculate the return on investment of the following: Gain: $25,000; Cost: $10,000.
A. 75%
B. -150%
C. 150%
D. 125%
Answer: C 
Explanation:  Return on Investment (ROI): A metric used to evaluate the efficiency of an investment or to compare efficiency among a number of investments. To calculate ROI, the return of an investment (i.e., the gain minus the cost) is divided by the cost of the investment. The result is usually expressed as a percentage and sometimes a ratio. The product owner is often said to be responsible for the ROI. [Agile Estimating and Planning. Mike Cohn.] [Value based prioritization]

8. Which of the following best defines the Internal Rate of Return (IRR)?
A. A metric used to evaluate the interest of an investment.
B. A metric used to evaluate the capacity of an investment.
C. A metric used to evaluate the measure of an investment.
D. A metric used to evaluate the profitability of an investment.
Answer: D 
Explanation:  The internal rate of return (IRR) is a financial metric used to measure and compare the profitability of investments. The IRR is the "rate" that makes the net present value of all cash flows from a particular investment equal to zero. Unlike NPV which is a dollar amount (i.e., a magnitude) value, the IRR is a rate (i.e.,, a percentage). Often times, the IRR is compared against a threshold rate value to determine if the investment is a suitable risk worth implementing. For example, you might calculate an IRR to be 13% for an investment while a comparative market rate is 2%. The IRR being larger than the comparative market rate, would indicate the investment is worth pursuing. [Agile Estimating and Planning. Mike Cohn.] [Value based prioritization]

9. When performing value based prioritization, what is the term for a product feature that is relatively simple or small and is expected to return value.
A. Minimally Advertised Feature (MAF)
B. Minimally Marketable Feature (MMF)
C. Simple Value Feature (SVF)
D. Small Value Feature (SVF)
Answer: B 
Explanation: A Minimal Marketable Feature (MMF) is a software feature or product feature that is both minimal and marketable. 'Minimal' taking the meaning of simple and small or not complex. 'Marketable' taking the meaning of having some value, whether it is revenue generating or cost saving, that can be marketed or sold. [The Art of Agile Development. James Shore.] [Value based prioritization]

10. Calculate the IRR for the following one year investment. The initial investment cost is $500. The expected income in year 1 is $550.
A. 10%
B. 15%
C. 5%
D. 7.38%
Answer: A 
Explanation: The internal rate of return (IRR) is a financial metric used to measure and compare the profitability of investments. The IRR is the "rate" that makes the net present value of all cash flows from a particular investment equal to zero. Unlike NPV which is a dollar amount (i.e., a magnitude) value, the IRR is a rate (i.e.,, a percentage). Often times, the IRR is compared against a threshold rate value to determine if the investment is a suitable risk worth implementing. For example, you might calculate an IRR to be 13% for an investment while a comparative market rate is 2%. The IRR being larger than the comparative market rate, would indicate the investment is worth pursuing. [Agile Estimating and Planning. Mike Cohn.] [Value based prioritization]

11. Based on the following IRRs, and based on IRR alone without considering other financial metrics, which of the following investments would you pick first to pursue?
A. 8%
B. 9%
C. 10%
D. 5.00%
Answer: C 
Explanation:  The internal rate of return (IRR) is a financial metric used to measure and compare the profitability of investments. The IRR is the "rate" that makes the net present value of all cash flows from a particular investment equal to zero. Unlike NPV which is a dollar amount (i.e., a magnitude) value, the IRR is a rate (i.e.,, a percentage). Often times, the IRR is compared against a threshold rate value to determine if the investment is a suitable risk worth implementing. For example, you might calculate an IRR to be 13% for an investment while a comparative market rate is 2%. The IRR being larger than the comparative market rate, would indicate the investment is worth pursuing. [Agile Estimating and Planning. Mike Cohn.] [Value based prioritization]

12. According to the pareto rule:
A. 80% of value-focused market research can be explained by 20% of the target population.
B. 80% of the value derives from 20% of the work.
C. 80% of defects occur during the first 20% of the total project schedule.
D. 20% of the value derives from 80% of the work.
Answer: B 
Explanation: The pareto rule stipulates that 80% of value derives from 20% of the work. [Lean-Agile Software Development: Achieving Enterprise Agility. Alan Shalloway, Guy Beaver, James R. Trott.] [Value based prioritization]

13. What are the key elements considered when prioritizing user stories?
A. Value, risk, and difficulty
B. Value, cost, and difficulty
C. Value, risk, and expedience
D. Value, cost, and risk
Answer: D 
Explanation:  Value, cost, and risk are key elements to consider when prioritizing user stories. [Agile Estimating and Planning. Mike Cohn.] [Value based prioritization]

14. Calculate the IRR for the following one year investment. The initial investment cost is $500. The expected income in year 1 is $550.
A. 15%
B. 5%
C. 7.38%
D. 10%
Answer: D 
Explanation:  The internal rate of return (IRR) is a financial metric used to measure and compare the profitability of investments. The IRR is the "rate" that makes the net present value of all cash flows from a particular investment equal to zero. Unlike NPV which is a dollar amount (i.e., a magnitude) value, the IRR is a rate (i.e.,, a percentage). Often times, the IRR is compared against a threshold rate value to determine if the investment is a suitable risk worth implementing. For example, you might calculate an IRR to be 13% for an investment while a comparative market rate is 2%. The IRR being larger than the comparative market rate, would indicate the investment is worth pursuing. [Agile Estimating and Planning. Mike Cohn.] [Value based prioritization]

15. Calculate the return on investment of the following: Gain: $10,000; Cost: $10,000.
A. 50%
B. 33%
C. -50%
D. 0%
Answer: D 
Explanation:  Return on Investment (ROI): A metric used to evaluate the efficiency of an investment or to compare efficiency among a number of investments. To calculate ROI, the return of an investment (i.e., the gain minus the cost) is divided by the cost of the investment. The result is usually expressed as a percentage and sometimes a ratio. The product owner is often said to be responsible for the ROI. [Agile Estimating and Planning. Mike Cohn.] [Value based prioritization]

1. What type of activity does a team have on the ready should a risk happen to strike?
A. Contingency
B. Reserve
C. Spike
D. B plan
Answer: A 
Explanation:  A contingency activity is an activity ready for implementation to reduce risk impact should a risk occur. [The Art of Agile Development. James Shore.] [Risk management]

2. How might a manager use a burndown chart and team velocity to manage risks with respect to a sustainable pace of development?
A. A burndown chart is not used to manage risks on an agile project. Instead it is used to chart the progress of a team with respect to completing assigned work.
B. A manager may use a risk burndown chart by taking the team's risk burndown velocity and forecasting when all risks will be completely mitigated.
C. A manager may use a risk burndown chart by taking the team's risk burndown velocity and forecasting when all risks will be completely eliminated.
D. A manager may use a burndown chart to determine whether a team is under or over committing to an iteration base on the team's velocity prediction.
Answer: D 
Explanation:  A project manager may use a burndown chart and a team's velocity to make sure the team is not under or over committing to an iteration. A sustainable pace of development is an important facet of agile project planning and risk management. [The Art of Agile Development. James Shore.] [Risk management]

3. When is a risk audit typically performed on an agile project?
A. During the retrospective.
B. After a release.
C. After an iteration during an iteration review meeting.
D. After release planning.
Answer: C 
Explanation:  A risk audit is typically performed in the iteration review after each iteration. [The Art of Agile Development. James Shore.] [Risk management]

4. James and his agile team are reviewing a chart that shows the risk severity over time of their current project. What information radiator is James looking at?
A. Severity graph
B. Severity burndown graph
C. Risk burndown graph
D. Impact graph
Answer: C 
Explanation:  A risk burndown chart is a risk management technique used to track project risk over time. It allows stakeholders to quickly review project risk management performance (e.g., increasing, decreasing, and by how much) over time. Severity (a product of impact and probability) is charted along the vertical axis with time on the horizontal axis. Impact typically takes a value from 0 to 5 in increasing order of risk and probability/likelihood typically takes a value from 0 to 5 in increasing order of probability. In this example, the worst severity a risk could have is 25 (5 × 5 = 25) and the least harmful severity a risk could have is 0. The agile team and customer/product owner identifies its risks and assigns severity values in a risk register and tracks those values over time. Ideally, risk severity will decrease over time. [The Art of Agile Development. James Shore.] [Risk management]

5. Besides prioritizing a backlog in terms of relative value, how else is it commonly prioritized?
A. By relative market share
B. By relative complexity
C. By relative risk
D. By relative temporal complexity
Answer: C 
Explanation:  A risk-adjusted backlog is a product backlog organized by taking into account risk. Risk can be estimated as the product of severity/consequence and likelihood. User stories can also be positioned on a risk-to-value matrix to help prioritize them in the backlog. The risk-to-value matrix is a chart with four quadrants. Along the horizontal axis is value in ascending order. Along the vertical axis is risk in ascending order. A user story that is high risk and high value is located in the top-right corner. A user story that is low risk and high value is located in the lower-right corner. A user story that is low risk and high value is located in the lower-right corner. A user story that is low risk and low value is located in the lower-left corner. Typically a team will prioritize high-value, low-risk user stories first, followed by high-value, high-risk user stories, followed by low-value, low-risk user stories, followed by low-value, high-risk user stories. [The Art of Agile Development. James Shore.] [Risk management]

6. Rupert is reviewing a chart that shows different expectations of story point completion for an entire project based on risk. What is Rupert reviewing?
A. A risk-based burnup chart.
B. A burndown chart.
C. A risk-adjusted burndown chart.
D. A burnup chart.
Answer: A 
Explanation:  A risk-based burnup chart tracks targeted and actual product delivery progress and also includes estimates of how likely the team is to achieve targeted value adjusted for risk. Typically, risk is shown as three different levels: best-case; most likely; and worst-case. For example, if you have a iteration project and the team's current velocity is 10 story points, you can portray the chance of completing 100 story points (most likely case), the chance of completing story points (worst-case), and the chance of completing 120 story points (best-case). In this way, the stakeholders get a feel for the range of risk. [The Art of Agile Development. James Shore.] [Risk management]

7. Two software developers, Ron and Peter, are having a disagreement about the best way to approach a technical problem. What is an appropriate agile methodology for exploring potential solutions?
A. Using project burndown charts where Ron and Peter can review who has completed the most story points.
B. Using risk based task estimates to determine whose approach introduces the least amount of risk.
C. Using spike solutions where Ron and Peter each explore their respective solution to evaluate efficacy.
D. Using collective ownership coding where Ron and Peter code on solution together integrating both ideas.
Answer: C 
Explanation:  A spike solution is a simple software program used to explore and evaluate potential solutions. Ron and Peter can both develop spike solutions to help form their debate. [The Art of Agile Development. James Shore.] [Risk management]

8. Risks are common to all projects big and small. What can be said of risk mitigation?
A. Risk mitigation involves making risks transparent so that it is evident to all stakeholders when a project will become intractable.
B. Risk mitigation involves reducing the impact of risks whether or not they occur.
C. Risk mitigation involves eliminating risks completely.
D. Risk mitigation involves containing and transferring risk to low value features.
Answer: B 
Explanation:  Generally, risk mitigation is thought of as the reduction of the impact whether or not the risk occurs. [The Art of Agile Development. James Shore.] [Risk management]

9. What is the frequency of risk management on an agile project?
A. At the end of a release
B. During release planning
C. At the end of an iteration
D. Continuously
Answer: D 
Explanation:  Risk is continuously monitored on an agile project through information radiators, daily stand-up meetings, iteration reviews, and iteration retrospectives. [The Art of Agile Development. James Shore.] [Risk management]

10. Choose the best definition of a risk-based spike task.
A. An exploratory task conducted immediately before another task that holds uncertainty to reduce risk.
B. An exploratory task conducted immediately before a questionable user story to determine its feasibility.
C. A potentially risky task conducted with extreme caution to determine market feasibility.
D. An exploratory task conducted immediately before an epic to decompose it into more manageable development sizes.
Answer: A 
Explanation:  Risked-based spike is a risk management technique and is often thought of as a task. A risked-based spike is a task used to gain knowledge in an area of uncertainty to reduce risk. For example, a development team may need to understand how migrating from Windows 7 to Windows 8 may impact the look and feel of the interface. Risked-based spikes typically are included in iteration planning directly before a the task that holds the uncertainty. [The Art of Agile Development. James Shore.] [Risk management]

11. What type of risk is generally managed in the agile methodology?
A. Qualitative and quantitative
B. Mitigative
C. Quantitative
D. Qualitative
Answer: D 
Explanation:  The agile methodology generally deals with qualitative risks. NOT quantitative. [The Art of Agile Development. James Shore.] [Risk management]

12. How is risk monitored and controlled in agile projects?
A. Through team building exercises.
B. Through information radiators, daily stand-up meetings, iteration reviews, and iteration retrospectives
C. Through comprehensive documentation.
D. Risk is not monitored and controlled on agile projects.
Answer: B 
Explanation:  The BEST answer is through information radiators, daily stand-up meetings, iteration reviews, and iteration retrospectives. In other words, risk is monitored and controlled throughout an agile project and in many different ways. [The Art of Agile Development. James Shore.] [Risk management]

13. Select the response that lists one of the five core risk areas that can impact a project.
A. Iteration slip
B. Failure to adapt
C. Scope creep
D. Backlog creep
Answer: C 
Explanation:  The five core risk areas include: productivity variation (difference between planned and actual performance); scope creep (considerable additional requirements beyond initial agreement); specification breakdown (lack of stakeholder consensus on requirements); intrinsic schedule flaw (poor estimates of task durations), personnel loss (the loss of human resources). [The Software Project Manager's Bridge to Agility. Michele Sliger, Stacia Broderick.] [Risk management]

14. Which of the following is the best definition of a risk burndown graph?
A. A chart that tracks risk impact over time.
B. A chart that tracks risk management over time.
C. A chart that tracks risk severity over time.
D. A chart that tracks risk severity over time.
Answer: D 
Explanation:  A risk burndown chart is a risk management technique used to track project risk over time. It allows stakeholders to quickly review project risk management performance (e.g., increasing, decreasing, and by how much) over time. Severity (a product of impact and probability) is charted along the vertical axis with time on the horizontal axis. Impact typically takes a value from 0 to 5 in increasing order of risk and probability/likelihood typically takes a value from 0 to 5 in increasing order of probability. In this example, the worst severity a risk could have is 25 (5 × 5 = 25) and the least harmful severity a risk could have is 0. The agile team and customer/product owner identifies its risks and assigns severity values in a risk register and tracks those values over time. Ideally, risk severity will decrease over time. [The Art of Agile Development. James Shore.] [Risk management]

15. Mark is reviewing the upcoming user stories for the next iteration. He notices that there will be a few tasks with high uncertainty Why might Mark want to use risk-based spike tasks in this scenario?
A. To convey to the product owner the extreme complexity of the user story.
B. To understand the impacts of the high risk tasks.
C. To understand the nature of the development team when performing under risk.
D. To convey to the scrum master the extreme complexity of the user story.
Answer: B 
Explanation:  Risked-based spike is a risk management technique and is often thought of as a task. A risked-based spike is a task used to gain knowledge in an area of uncertainty to reduce risk. For example, a development team may need to understand how migrating from Windows 7 to Windows 8 may impact the look and feel of the interface. Risked-based spikes typically are included in iteration planning directly before a the task that holds the uncertainty. [The Art of Agile Development. James Shore.] [Risk management]

1. What is an escaped defect?
A. A defect that is almost impossible to duplicate.
B. A defect that cannot be replicated.
C. A defect that escapes from a previous defect-free build to the most recent build iteration.
D. A defect that is not found by the development or testing team and later found by an end-user.
Answer: D 
Explanation:  An escaped defect is a software defect that is not found by the development or testing team and later found by an end-user. [Agile Software Development: The Cooperative Game – 2nd Edition. Alistair Cockburn.] [Metrics]

2. When is value and progress typically measured in an agile effort?
A. After a release planning event
B. After an affinity planning event
C. After the envisioning phase
D. After an iteration.
Answer: D 
Explanation:  Because value is delivered incrementally and iteratively through iterations, value and progress is typically measured at the end of each iteration. [The Art of Agile Development. James Shore.] [Metrics]

3. EVM is a frequently used project management abbreviation. What does EVM stand for?
A. Extra value management
B. Earned velocity management
C. Earned value management
D. Earned value maintenance
Answer: C 
Explanation:  EVM or earned value management is a management technique used to evaluate project performance with respect to cost and schedule. [Agile Estimating and Planning. Mike Cohn.] [Metrics]

4. Calculate the SPI of the following project EVM snapshot. BAC is $100,000. AC is $10,000. PV is $5,000. EV is $7,000.
A. 0.50
B. 1.40
C. 71%
D. 0.71
Answer: B 
Explanation:  EVM or earned value management is a management technique used to evaluate project performance with respect to cost and schedule. EVM relies on other common financial metrics like Budget At Completion (BAC), Actual Cost (AC), Planned Value (PV), Earned Value (EV), Cost Variance (CV), Schedule Variance (SV), Cost Performance Index (CPI), and Schedule Performance Index (SPI). PV is the planned value of work at a given time in a project; you can calculate it by multiplying the BAC by the ratio of current week/scheduled weeks (e.g., 5 weeks into a 15 week $15,000 project = $5,000 PV). EV is value of work actually completed or earned (e.g., you have completed 50% of the project by week 5 of a 15 week $15,000 project = $7,500 EV). SPI = EV / PV. If SPI > 1, the project is ahead of schedule and if SPI < 1, the project is behind schedule. AC is the actual cost the project has incurred to date. [Agile Estimating and Planning. Mike Cohn.] [Metrics]

5. If a bar on a product burndown bar chart extends below the horizontal axis, what does it indicate?
A. That the team has overrun on cost.
B. That work has been added to the project.
C. That the schedule is slipping.
D. That work has been removed from the project.
Answer: B 
Explanation:  If a bar extends below the horizontal axis on a project burndown bar chart, work has been added to the project indicating an increase in scope. [Agile Estimating and Planning. Mike Cohn.] [Metrics]

6. If, during a sprint review, the product owner does NOT accept a user story or feature, what should the team do?
A. Mark the story as done because it would not be reviewed if it didn't pass the acceptance criteria written on the back of the card.
B. Mark the user story as incomplete and collaborate with the product owner whether to include the user story in a subsequent iteration.
C. Postpone the sprint review until the user story is accepted.
D. Remove the user story from the product backlog.
Answer: B 
Explanation:  If a user story is not accepted by the product owner during a sprint review, the team should not mark the story as complete and collaborate with the product owner to determine if and when the user story should be completed. [Agile Estimating and Planning. Mike Cohn.] [Metrics]

7. If the bottom of the bar on a product burndown bar chart is above the horizontal axis, what does it indicate?
A. That the schedule is slipping.
B. That there is a cost variance.
C. That work has been added to the project.
D. That work has been removed from the project and indicating a reduction in scope since initial planning.
Answer: D 
Explanation:  If the bottom of the bar on a product burndown bar chart is above the horizontal axis, it indicates that work has been removed from the project (scope reduction) since initial planning. [Agile Estimating and Planning. Mike Cohn.] [Metrics]

8. Why aren't source line of code reports (SLOC) suitable as a reporting metric for project stakeholders?
A. SLOC reports are not a complete source for reporting productivity. Instead, testing line of code reports (TLOC) should be reported.
B. SLOC reports SHOULD be used as a reporting metric to stakeholders.
C. SLOC reports are unsuitable because they can give a false positive indication of the project being near completion.
D. SLOC reports are an imperfect source to be used for productivity reports.
Answer: D 
Explanation:  SLOC reports are an imperfect source to be used for productivity reports. [The Art of Agile Development. James Shore.] [Metrics]

9. During the last iteration, Paul and his agile team completed 2 user stories worth 6 points each, 3 user stories worth 1 point each, and nearly completed one user story point worth 10 points. What was the team's velocity for the previous iteration?
A. 20
B. 19
C. 15
D. 25
Answer: C 
Explanation:  The team's velocity is 15. 2 × 6 + 3 × 1 = 15. Story points for partially completed stories are not included in the velocity metric. [Agile Estimating and Planning. Mike Cohn.] [Metrics]

10. During the last iteration, Steve and his agile team completed 3 user stories worth 4 points each, 2 user stories worth 3 points each, and nearly completed one user story point worth 20 points. What was the team's velocity for the previous iteration?
A. 18
B. 8
C. 38
D. 28
Answer: A 
Explanation:  The team's velocity is 18. 3 × 4 + 2 × 3 = 18. Story points for partially completed stories are not included in the velocity metric. [Agile Estimating and Planning. Mike Cohn.] [Metrics]

11. Why might the top of a bar on a product burndown bar chart lower from one iteration to the next?
A. The top of a bar on a product burndown bar chart may lower from one iteration to the next because the team completed work in the previous iteration or the team re-estimated user story effort.
B. The top of a bar on a product burndown bar chart may lower from one iteration to the next because the product owner added work for the project.
C. The top of a bar on a product burndown bar chart may lower from one iteration to the next because the product owner removed work for the project.
D. The top of a bar on a product burndown bar chart may lower from one iteration to the next because the team may have removed work from the project.

Answer: A 
Explanation:  The top of a bar on a product burndown bar chart may lower from one iteration to the next because the team completed work in the previous iteration or the team re-estimated user story development effort. When the team completes planned work during the iteration the top of the bar chart is lowered. Additionally, the top of the bar chart may be lowered if the team re-estimates user stories and finds they are not as challenging as previously believed and therefore represent a smaller story point value. [Agile Estimating and Planning. Mike Cohn.] [Metrics]

12. An executive is reviewing a chart comparing four of his agile teams' velocity for the previous iteration. Is it safe to make assumptions about the most productive team?
A. No, velocity alone is not an apples-to-apples metric with which to compare and contrast team productivity.
B. No, velocity must be included in the context of ideal time to be able to make accurate conclusions about comparing team productivity.
C. Yes, so long as the organization has standardized its baseline user story complexity.
D. Yes, so long as the agile teams were all using story points or all using ideal time.
Answer: A 
Explanation:  Velocity alone is insufficient for comparing productivity among two or more agile teams. This is because no two teams share the same definition of a story point. [Agile Estimating and Planning. Mike Cohn.] [Metrics]

13. David's agile team just finished building, testing, and releasing 8 user story points in its most recent 3 week iteration. What is the team's velocity?
A. 24
B. 3
C. 8
D. 2.67
Answer: C 
Explanation:  Velocity is a measure of the number of user story points completed per iteration. An agile team can use its previous velocity recordings as a method of estimating how many user story points it may complete in the next iteration. David's team's velocity is 8 [Agile Estimating and Planning. Mike Cohn.] [Metrics]

14. Calculate the CPI of the following project EVM snapshot. BAC is $100,000. AC is $10,000. PV is $5,000. EV is $7,000.
A. 0.70
B. 0.50
C. 1.43
D. 70%
Answer: A 
Explanation:  EVM or earned value management is a management technique used to evaluate project performance with respect to cost and schedule. EVM relies on other common financial metrics like Budget At Completion (BAC), Actual Cost (AC), Planned Value (PV), Earned Value (EV), Cost Variance (CV), Schedule Variance (SV), Cost Performance Index (CPI), and Schedule Performance Index (SPI). EV is value of work actually completed or earned (e.g., you have completed 50% of the project by week 5 of a 15 week $15,000 project = $7,500 EV). CV is the difference between what a project has earned to date and cost to date (i.e., CV = EV - AC). SV is the difference between what a project has earned to date and what it was planned to earn to date (i.e., SV = EV - PV). CPI is a ratio that expresses cost performance. CPI = EV/AC. If CPI > 1, the project is earning more than spending; and if CPI <1, the project is spending more than it is earning. AC is the actual cost the project has incurred to date. [Agile Estimating and Planning. Mike Cohn.] [Metrics]

15. What purpose can EVM serve on an agile project?
A. A technique used to evaluate project performance with respect to quality and value.
B. A technique used to evaluate project performance with respect to velocity and cost.
C. A technique used to evaluate project performance with respect to cost and schedule.
D. A technique used to evaluate project performance with respect to schedule and value.
Answer: C 
Explanation:  EVM or earned value management is a management technique used to evaluate project performance with respect to cost and schedule. EVM relies on other common financial metrics like Budget At Completion (BAC), Actual Cost (AC), Planned Value (PV), Earned Value (EV), Cost Variance (CV), Schedule Variance (SV), Cost Performance Index (CPI), and Schedule Performance Index (SPI). CV and SV can be converted into performance indicators of CPI and SPI, respectively, and tracked and charted to show progress over time. BAC is the total project budget. PV is the planned value of work at a given time in a project; you can calculate it by multiplying the BAC by the ratio of current week/scheduled weeks (e.g., 5 weeks into a 15 week $15,000 project = $5,000 PV). EV is value of work actually completed or earned (e.g., you have completed 50% of the project by week 5 of a 15 week $15,000 project = $7,500 EV). CV is the difference between what a project has earned to date and cost to date (i.e., CV = EV - AC). SV is the difference between what a project has earned to date and what it was planned to earn to date (i.e., SV = EV - PV). CPI is a ratio that expresses cost performance. CPI = EV/AC. If CPI > 1, the project is earning more than spending; and if CPI 1, the project is ahead of schedule and if SPI < 1, the project is behind schedule. AC is the actual cost the project has incurred to date. [Agile Estimating and Planning. Mike Cohn.] [Metrics]

1. Which of the following best defines value stream mapping?
A. A lean manufacturing technique used to analyze the flow of material and information that form a product to the consumer.
B. A six sigma manufacturing technique used to analyze the occurrence of defects.
C. A lean manufacturing technique used to control the flow of inventory (WIP) in a manufacturing plant.
D. A six sigma manufacturing technique used to control the visual management board.
Answer: A 
Explanation:  Value stream mapping is a lean manufacturing technique used to analyze the flow of material and information (i.e., value) that form a product or service to a consumer. There is roughly five steps in the implementation of value stream mapping: 1) Identification of the product, customer, and scope (i.e., the beginning and end of the process). 2) Map as a team or individual the current value stream, identifying process steps, delays, information requirements. Estimate process step durations and lead time durations. A lead time is how long a process or event must wait before happening. 3) Analyze the map to determine where waste exists (e.g., lead times) an where processes can be improved (process times are generally seen as value-added time, but on the whole process times should try to be reduced to reduce the overall time it takes the stream to deliver value to the customer). 4) From the analysis, draw a future state value stream map that represents a vision or goal the value stream should strive to become. 5) Work towards the goal through process improvement events (i.e., Kaizen) or other methods. [Lean-Agile Software Development: Achieving Enterprise Agility. Alan Shalloway, Guy Beaver, James R. Trott.] [Value stream analysis]

2. What manufacturing technique is generally credited with the creation of value stream mapping?
A. Intrepid
B. Lean / Toyota production system
C. Agile
D. Six sigma
Answer: B 
Explanation:  Value stream mapping is a lean manufacturing technique used to analyze the flow of material and information (i.e., value) that form a product or service to a consumer. There is roughly five steps in the implementation of value stream mapping: 1) Identification of the product, customer, and scope (i.e., the beginning and end of the process). 2) Map as a team or individual the current value stream, identifying process steps, delays, information requirements. Estimate process step durations and lead time durations. A lead time is how long a process or event must wait before happening. 3) Analyze the map to determine where waste exists (e.g., lead times) an where processes can be improved (process times are generally seen as value-added time, but on the whole process times should try to be reduced to reduce the overall time it takes the stream to deliver value to the customer). 4) From the analysis, draw a future state value stream map that represents a vision or goal the value stream should strive to become. 5) Work towards the goal through process improvement events (i.e., Kaizen) or other methods. [Lean-Agile Software Development: Achieving Enterprise Agility. Alan Shalloway, Guy Beaver, James R. Trott.] [Value stream analysis]

3. What is one purpose of value stream mapping?
A. Identify areas of Kaizen in a process.
B. Identify areas of Yokoten in a process.
C. Identify areas of Kanban in a process.
D. Identify areas of waste in a process.
Answer: D 
Explanation:  Value stream mapping is a lean manufacturing technique used to analyze the flow of material and information (i.e., value) that form a product or service to a consumer. There is roughly five steps in the implementation of value stream mapping: 1) Identification of the product, customer, and scope (i.e., the beginning and end of the process). 2) Map as a team or individual the current value stream, identifying process steps, delays, information requirements. Estimate process step durations and lead time durations. A lead time is how long a process or event must wait before happening. 3) Analyze the map to determine where waste exists (e.g., lead times) an where processes can be improved (process times are generally seen as value-added time, but on the whole process times should try to be reduced to reduce the overall time it takes the stream to deliver value to the customer). 4) From the analysis, draw a future state value stream map that represents a vision or goal the value stream should strive to become. 5) Work towards the goal through process improvement events (i.e., Kaizen) or other methods. [Lean-Agile Software Development: Achieving Enterprise Agility. Alan Shalloway, Guy Beaver, James R. Trott.] [Value stream analysis]

4. What is a purpose of value stream mapping?
A. Identify areas of waste throughout a process.
B. Identify areas of Yokoten in a process.
C. Identify areas of value in a process.
D. Identify areas of WIP in a process.
Answer: A 
Explanation:  Value stream mapping is a lean manufacturing technique used to analyze the flow of material and information (i.e., value) that form a product or service to a consumer. There is roughly five steps in the implementation of value stream mapping: 1) Identification of the product, customer, and scope (i.e., the beginning and end of the process). 2) Map as a team or individual the current value stream, identifying process steps, delays, information requirements. Estimate process step durations and lead time durations. A lead time is how long a process or event must wait before happening. 3) Analyze the map to determine where waste exists (e.g., lead times) an where processes can be improved (process times are generally seen as value-added time, but on the whole process times should try to be reduced to reduce the overall time it takes the stream to deliver value to the customer). 4) From the analysis, draw a future state value stream map that represents a vision or goal the value stream should strive to become. 5) Work towards the goal through process improvement events (i.e., Kaizen) or other methods. [Lean-Agile Software Development: Achieving Enterprise Agility. Alan Shalloway, Guy Beaver, James R. Trott.] [Value stream analysis]

5. What is total lead time considered as in a value stream map?
A. Waste
B. Value-forma
C. Value-pro
D. Value-added
Answer: A 
Explanation:  Value stream mapping is a lean manufacturing technique used to analyze the flow of material and information (i.e., value) that form a product or service to a consumer. There is roughly five steps in the implementation of value stream mapping: 1) Identification of the product, customer, and scope (i.e., the beginning and end of the process). 2) Map as a team or individual the current value stream, identifying process steps, delays, information requirements. Estimate process step durations and lead time durations. A lead time is how long a process or event must wait before happening. 3) Analyze the map to determine where waste exists (e.g., lead times) an where processes can be improved (process times are generally seen as value-added time, but on the whole process times should try to be reduced to reduce the overall time it takes the stream to deliver value to the customer). 4) From the analysis, draw a future state value stream map that represents a vision or goal the value stream should strive to become. 5) Work towards the goal through process improvement events (i.e., Kaizen) or other methods. [Lean-Agile Software Development: Achieving Enterprise Agility. Alan Shalloway, Guy Beaver, James R. Trott.] [Value stream analysis]

6. Karen is reviewing a value stream map that she and her agile team just created. The team is debating whether it should reduce a lead time by 90% or increase a process time by 20%. Which of the previous two actions would you suggest her team take?
A. Increase process time by 20%
B. Reduce lead time by 90%
C. Both.
D. Neither. Both represent adding more waste into the value stream.
Answer: B 
Explanation:  Value stream mapping is a lean manufacturing technique used to analyze the flow of material and information (i.e., value) that form a product or service to a consumer. There is roughly five steps in the implementation of value stream mapping: 1) Identification of the product, customer, and scope (i.e., the beginning and end of the process). 2) Map as a team or individual the current value stream, identifying process steps, delays, information requirements Estimate process step durations and lead time durations. A lead time is how long a process or event must wait before happening. 3) Analyze the map to determine where waste exists (e.g., lead times) an where processes can be improved (process times are generally seen as value-added time, but on the whole process times should try to be reduced to reduce the overall time it takes the stream to deliver value to the customer). 4) From the analysis, draw a future state value stream map that represents a vision or goal the value stream should strive to become. 5) Work towards the goal through process improvement events (i.e., Kaizen) or other methods. [Lean-Agile Software Development: Achieving Enterprise Agility. Alan Shalloway, Guy Beaver, James R. Trott.] [Value stream analysis]

7. Karen is reviewing a value stream map that she and her agile team just created. The team is debating whether it should increase a lead time by 60% or decrease a process time by 30%. Which of the previous two actions would you suggest her team take?
A. Neither. Both represent adding more waste into the value stream.
B. Both.
C. Reduce process time by 30%
D. Increase lead time by 60%
Answer: C 
Explanation:  Value stream mapping is a lean manufacturing technique used to analyze the flow of material and information (i.e., value) that form a product or service to a consumer. There is roughly five steps in the implementation of value stream mapping: 1) Identification of the product, customer, and scope (i.e., the beginning and end of the process). 2) Map as a team or individual the current value stream, identifying process steps, delays, information requirements. Estimate process step durations and lead time durations. A lead time is how long a process or event must wait before happening. 3) Analyze the map to determine where waste exists (e.g., lead times) an where processes can be improved (process times are generally seen as value-added time, but on the whole process times should try to be reduced to reduce the overall time it takes the stream to deliver value to the customer). 4) From the analysis, draw a future state value stream map that represents a vision or goal the value stream should strive to become. 5) Work towards the goal through process improvement events (i.e., Kaizen) or other methods. [Lean-Agile Software Development: Achieving Enterprise Agility. Alan Shalloway, Guy Beaver, James R. Trott.] [Value stream analysis]

8. If you were shown a diagram of a proposed design to improve an existing system and the diagram had process steps, information flow, lead times, and process times, what type of diagram would you believe it to be?
A. Future-state value stream map
B. Waste stream map
C. Value stream analysis
D. Current-state value stream map
Answer: A 
Explanation:  Value stream mapping is a lean manufacturing technique used to analyze the flow of material and information (i.e., value) that form a product or service to a consumer. There is roughly five steps in the implementation of value stream mapping: 1) Identification of the product, customer, and scope (i.e., the beginning and end of the process). 2) Map as a team or individual the current value stream, identifying process steps, delays, information requirements. Estimate process step durations and lead time durations. A lead time is how long a process or event must wait before happening. 3) Analyze the map to determine where waste exists (e.g., lead times) an where processes can be improved (process times are generally seen as value-added time, but on the whole process times should try to be reduced to reduce the overall time it takes the stream to deliver value to the customer). 4) From the analysis, draw a future state value stream map that represents a vision or goal the value stream should strive to become. 5) Work towards the goal through process improvement events (i.e., Kaizen) or other methods. [Lean-Agile Software Development: Achieving Enterprise Agility. Alan Shalloway, Guy Beaver, James R. Trott.] [Value stream analysis]

9. If you were shown a diagram of an existing system and the diagram had process steps, information flow, lead times, and process times, what type of diagram would you believe it to be?
A. Current-state value stream map
B. Value stream analysis
C. Future-state value stream map
D. Waste stream map
Answer: A 
Explanation:  Value stream mapping is a lean manufacturing technique used to analyze the flow of material and information (i.e.,value) that form a product or service to a consumer. There is roughly five steps in the implementation of value stream mapping: 1) Identification of the product, customer, and scope (i.e., the beginning and end of the process). 2) Map as a team or individual the current value stream, identifying process steps, delays, information requirements. Estimate process step durations and lead time durations. A lead time is how long a process or event must wait before happening. 3) Analyze the map to determine where waste exists (e.g., lead times) an where processes can be improved (process times are generally seen as value-added time, but on the whole process times should try to be reduced to reduce the overall time it takes the stream to deliver value to the customer). 4) From the analysis, draw a future state value stream map that represents a vision or goal the value stream should strive to become. 5) Work towards the goal through process improvement events (i.e., Kaizen) or other methods. [Lean-Agile Software Development: Achieving Enterprise Agility. Alan Shalloway, Guy Beaver, James R. Trott.] [Value stream analysis]

10. What is one purpose of value stream mapping?
A. To understand how sigmas are delivered to a customer.
B. To understand how quality is delivered to a customer.
C. To understand how agility is delivered to a customer.
D. To understand how value is delivered to a customer.
Answer: D 
Explanation:  Value stream mapping is a lean manufacturing technique used to analyze the flow of material and information (i.e., value) that form a product or service to a consumer. There is roughly five steps in the implementation of value stream mapping: 1) Identification of the product, customer, and scope (i.e., the beginning and end of the process). 2) Map as a team or individual the current value stream, identifying process steps, delays, information requirements. Estimate process step durations and lead time durations. A lead time is how long a process or event must wait before happening. 3) Analyze the map to determine where waste exists (e.g., lead times) an where processes can be improved (process times are generally seen as value-added time, but on the whole process times should try to be reduced to reduce the overall time it takes the stream to deliver value to the customer). 4) From the analysis, draw a future state value stream map that represents a vision or goal the value stream should strive to become. 5) Work towards the goal through process improvement events (i.e., Kaizen) or other methods. [Lean-Agile Software Development: Achieving Enterprise Agility. Alan Shalloway, Guy Beaver, James R. Trott.] [Value stream analysis]

11. Harry's agile team has just finished creating a value stream map for one of its products. On the value stream map, Harry's team has identified two types of data. Which of the following are these two types of data most likely to be?
A. Defect-stream and Value-stream
B. Information-flow and information-owner
C. Value-added and non value-added
D. Sigma-ranked and Theta-prioritized
Answer: C 
Explanation:  Value stream mapping is a lean manufacturing analysis technique adopted by agile. A value stream map may be used to analyze the flow of information or materials from origin to destination to identify areas of waste. The identified areas of waste are opportunities for process improvement. Waste can take many forms and can be remembered using the pneumonic device WIDETOM. W - waiting; I - inventory; D - defects; E - extra processing; T - transportation; O - over-production; M - Motion. A value stream map is typically mapped or charted collaboratively with a team so it may define and view the entire process together, pinpointing areas of waste within the process. Processes that add value (processing of a part or feature) are generally referred to as "value-added" and processes that do not (e.g., waiting for a part to arrive) are generally referred to as "non value-added." Generally speaking, one wants to reduce, to the largest extent possible, the non value-added time (i.e., areas of waste). [Lean-Agile Software Development: Achieving Enterprise Agility. Alan Shalloway, Guy Beaver, James R. Trott.] [Value stream analysis]

12. If a business is interested in streamlining its processes to remove and reduce waste and increase the efficiency with which value is delivered to its customers, what technique, adopted from lean manufacturing, might it consider?
A. Operations research
B. Management science
C. Value stream mapping
D. Systems engineering
Answer: C 
Explanation:  Value stream mapping is a lean manufacturing analysis technique adopted by agile. A value stream map may be used to analyze the flow of information or materials from origin to destination to identify areas of waste. The identified areas of waste are opportunities for process improvement. Waste can take many forms and can be remembered using the pneumonic device WIDETOM. W - waiting; I - inventory; D - defects; E - extra processing; T - transportation; O - over-production; M - Motion. A value stream map is typically mapped or charted collaboratively with a team so it may define and view the entire process together, pinpointing areas of waste within the process. Processes that add value (processing of a part or feature) are generally referred to as "value-added" and processes that do not (e.g., waiting for a part to arrive) are generally referred to as "non value-added." Generally speaking, one wants to reduce, to the largest extent possible, the non value-added time (i.e., areas of waste). [Lean-Agile Software Development: Achieving Enterprise Agility. Alan Shalloway, Guy Beaver, James R. Trott.] [Value stream analysis]

13. Jill and Stephanie are reviewing a large chart that visually depicts the flow of information from origin to customer. On the chart are times indicating the duration of value-added processes and non value-added processes. What are Jill and Stephanie reviewing?
A. A muda stream map
B. A kaizen stream map
C. A lean stream map
D. A value stream map
Answer: D 
Explanation:  Value stream mapping is a lean manufacturing analysis technique adopted by agile. A value stream map may be used to analyze the flow of information or materials from origin to destination to identify areas of waste. The identified areas of waste are opportunities for process improvement. Waste can take many forms and can be remembered using the pneumonic device WIDETOM. W - waiting; I - inventory; D - defects; E - extra processing; T - transportation; O - over-production; M - Motion. A value stream map is typically mapped or charted collaboratively with a team so it may define and view the entire process together, pinpointing areas of waste within the process. Processes that add value (processing of a part or feature) are generally referred to as "value-added" and processes that do not (e.g., waiting for a part to arrive) are generally referred to as "non value-added." Generally speaking, one wants to reduce, to the largest extent possible, the non value-added time (i.e., areas of waste). [Lean-Agile Software Development: Achieving Enterprise Agility. Alan Shalloway, Guy Beaver, James R. Trott.] [Value stream analysis]

14. What is it called when a team collaboratively charts the flow of information or material of a process from origin to destination along with all its instances of waste?
A. Procedure charting
B. Multiple regression
C. Value stream mapping
D. Process shortening mapping
Answer: C 
Explanation:  Value stream mapping is a lean manufacturing analysis technique adopted by agile. A value stream map may be used to analyze the flow of information or materials from origin to destination to identify areas of waste. The identified areas of waste are opportunities for process improvement. Waste can take many forms and can be remembered using the pneumonic device WIDETOM. W - waiting; I - inventory; D - defects; E - extra processing; T - transportation; O - over-production; M - Motion. A value stream map is typically mapped or charted collaboratively with a team so it may define and view the entire process together, pinpointing areas of waste within the process. Processes that add value (processing of a part or feature) are generally referred to as "value-added" and processes that do not (e.g., waiting for a part to arrive) are generally referred to as "non value-added." Generally speaking, one wants to reduce, to the largest extent possible, the non value-added time (i.e.,areas of waste). [Lean-Agile Software Development: Achieving Enterprise Agility. Alan Shalloway, Guy Beaver, James R. Trott.] [Value stream analysis]

15. When value stream mapping it is important to identify areas of waste that exist in the process. The pneumonic device WIDETOM may be used to remember the different forms of muda (or waste). What does the D in WIDETOM stand for with respect to waste?
A. Deterrent
B. Deleterious
C. Defect
D. Detriment
Answer: C 
Explanation:  Value stream mapping is a lean manufacturing analysis technique adopted by agile. A value stream map may be used to analyze the flow of information or materials from origin to destination to identify areas of waste. The identified areas of waste are opportunities for process improvement. Waste can take many forms and can be remembered using the pneumonic device WIDETOM. W - waiting; I - inventory; D - defects; E - extra processing; T - transportation; O - over-production; M - Motion. A value stream map is typically mapped or charted collaboratively with a team so it may define and view the entire process together, pinpointing areas of waste within the process. Processes that add value (processing of a part or feature) are generally referred to as "value-added" and processes that do not (e.g., waiting for a part to arrive) are generally referred to as "non value-added." Generally speaking, one wants to reduce, to the largest extent possible, the non value-added time (i.e., areas of waste). [Lean-Agile Software Development: Achieving Enterprise Agility. Alan Shalloway, Guy Beapver, James R. Trott.] [Value stream analysis]

1. Lisa is describing the four Agile Manifesto values to her co-workers. Of the following, which response lists two of the four values?
A.Customer collaboration over contract negotiation, and 2) Responding to change over following a plan.
B.Customer collaboration over contract negotiation, and 2) Following a plan over responding to change.
C.Contract negotiation over customer collaboration, and 2) Responding to change over following a plan.
D.Teams and interactions over processes and tools, 2) Working software over comprehensive documentation
Answer: A 
Explanation:  The Agile Manifesto defines four values. The four values list primary values and secondary values, with primary values superseding secondary values. The values are 1) individuals and interactions over processes and tools, 2) working software over comprehensive documentation, 3) customer collaboration over contract negotiation, and 4) responding to change over following a plan. [Manifesto for Agile Software Development. Agile Alliance.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]

2. Lisa is describing the four Agile Manifesto values to her co-workers. Which response lists two of the four values?
A. Team member collaboration over contract negotiation, and 2) Responding to change over following a plan.
B. Individuals and interactions over processes and tools, 2) Working software over comprehensive documentation
C. Teams and interactions over processes and tools, 2) Working software over comprehensive documentation
D. Customer collaboration over contract negotiation, and 2) Following a plan over responding to change.
Answer: B 
Explanation:  The Agile Manifesto defines four values. The four values list primary values and secondary values, with primary values superseding secondary values. The values are 1) individuals and interactions over processes and tools, 2) working software over comprehensive documentation, 3) customer collaboration over contract negotiation, and 4) responding to change over following a plan. [Manifesto for Agile Software Development. Agile Alliance.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]

3. Which of the following is the best definition of brainstorming?
A. A collaborative activity held for the purpose of reviewing user stories.
B. An individual exercise performed for the purpose of generating ideas.
C. A collaborative activity held for the purpose of generating ideas.
D. A formal meeting led by a project leader to introduce previously defined ideas.
Answer: C 
Explanation:  Brainstorming is a group activity held for the purpose of generating new ideas. The idea is that through collaboration, a team can generate more potentially valuable ideas than an individual, while at the same time forming a positive bonding experience for the team. [Agile Retrospectives: Making Good Teams Great. Esther Derby, Diana Larsen, Ken Schwaber.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]

4. Select a technique that promotes agile 'knowledge sharing.'
A. A high specialized team
B. A team composed of generalized specialists
C. A uni-functional team
D. A monolithic team
Answer: B 
Explanation:  In agile, effective 'knowledge sharing' is a critical factor for success. It involves the near real time communication of key information among all team members and stakeholders. To promote knowledge sharing, agile uses standard practices built into its process, such as using generalized specialists/cross functional teams, self-organizing and self-disciplined teams, collocation, daily stand-up meetings, iteration/sprint planning, release planning, pair programming and pair rotation, project retrospectives/reflection, and on-site customer support. And, of course, the sixth principle of Agile is " The most efficient and effective method of conveying information to and within a development team is face-to-face conversation." In this sense, Agile prefers and encourages collocation for all stakeholders and team members for the simple fact that face-to-face conversation is the best method of communication and, in turn, effective knowledge sharing. [Becoming Agile: …in an imperfect world. Greg Smith, Ahmed Sidky.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]

5. Which of the following lists a key agile project management characteristic?
A. Incremental development of products and services
B. A singular-dimensioned team consisting of highly specialized experts all of the same skill
C. Short iterations and the use of baselines for strict schedule and budget control
D. Detailed change management processes
Answer: A 
Explanation:  Key characteristics of agile project management include: continuous improvement, cross-functional teams, short iterations, an incremental approach, and business priorities and customer value. [The Art of Agile Development. James Shore.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]

6. Juan is listening to an agile project management brief at the annual agile capstone conference. The speaker's topic is empowered teams. What does an empowered team mean?
A. A team that is self-organizing, cross-functional and can manage itself with little external influence.
B. A team that is profit-oriented and focused solely on meeting cost and schedule constraints.
C. A team that relies on external management to give it direction.
D. A team that is capable of exceeding sustainable development velocities in "power" iterations to meet backlog goals.
Answer: A 
Explanation:  Empowered teams - ones that are self-organizing and know how to solve problems with minimal management involvement - are a cornerstone of the agile methodology. An agile team feels empowered when it collectively assumes responsibility for the delivery of the product (i.e., taking ownership). [Coaching Agile Teams. Lyssa Adkins.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]

7. Which of the following is the best definition of 'feedback technique?'
A. A technique used in extreme programming to provide criticism of coding syntax.
B. A technique that facilitates constructive criticism to improve product quality and value.
C. A technique used in paired programming to provide criticism of coding syntax.
D. A technique that facilitates ever increasing amounts of spectral magnitude.
Answer: B 
Explanation:  There are several feedback techniques - techniques that facilitate constructive criticism to improve product value and quality - built into the agile process. In the classic definition, feedback is a dynamic process where past information influences the behavior of the same process in the future. Agile feedback techniques include prototyping, simulation, demonstration, evaluations, pair programming, unit testing, continuous integration, daily stand-up meetings, sprint planning. Because agile prides itself on a transparent and collaborative environment, feedback is essentially ubiquitous. [Agile Retrospectives: Making Good Teams Great. Esther Derby, Diana Larsen, Ken Schwaber.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]

8. Of the following responses, which is NOT a community value per the PMI agile community of practice community charter?
A. Adaptability
B. Leading Change
C. Openness
D. Commandeering
Answer: D 
Explanation:  The following are community values of the PMI agile community of practice community charter: Vision, Servant Leadership, Trust, Collaboration, Honesty, Learning, Courage, Openness, Adaptability, Leading Change, Transparency [PMI Agile Community of Practice Community Charter. Project Management Institute.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]

9. What phase do both Highsmith's agile project management and traditional project management share?
A. Speculating
B. Closing
C. Adapting
D. Executing
Answer: B 
Explanation:  The agile and traditional project management methods share closing as a phase name. Closing occurs as the last phase in both methods. [Agile Project Management: Creating Innovative Products – 2nd Edition. Jim Highsmith.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]

10. Select the first phase of Jim Highsmith's agile project management model.
A. Envisioning
B. Closing
C. Adapting
D. Exploring
Answer: A 
Explanation:  Jim Highsmith's agile project management model consists of the following sequential five phases: Envisioning, speculating, exploring, adapting, and closing. [Agile Project Management: Creating Innovative Products – 2nd Edition. Jim Highsmith.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]
11Answer: A Explanation:  In the closing phase, the agile team completes all remaining project work. In a software project, remaining work can be such tasks as user training documentation and installation manuals. [Agile Project Management: Creating Innovative Products – 2nd Edition. Jim Highsmith.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]

11. Jerry has just entered Highsmith's agile project management closing phase. What are he and his team focusing on?
A. Completing all outstanding project work, like recording lessons learned and performing other tasks with the product release
B. Making adjustments to the feature breakdown structure specification
C. Adapting product features to customer feedback
D. Adapting project plans for the next iteration
Answer: A 
Explanation:  In the closing phase, the agile team completes all remaining project work. In a software project, remaining work can be such tasks as user training documentation and installation manuals. [Agile Project Management: Creating Innovative Products – 2nd Edition. Jim Highsmith.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]

12. As project leader of an agile effort, in Highsmith's agile project management adapting phase you are expected to make adjustments. What are some of the types of adjustments that a project leader may perform in the adapting phase?
A. Adjustments to the cost sheet
B. Adjustments to any team dynamics, like handling problems raised by team members
C. Adjustments to the feature breakdown structure specification
D. Adjustments to software licenses
Answer: B 
Explanation:  In the adapting phase, the agile team leader may make adjustments to the team makeup, like problems raised by team members, if any team dynamic problems arise. [Agile Project Management: Creating Innovative Products – 2nd Edition. Jim Highsmith.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]

13. While Gerald is discussing to Lisa his take on the most prominent risks the project is facing, Lisa uses encouraging body language. What type of listening technique is Lisa using?
A. Excited
B. Alert
C. Tuned
D. Active
Answer: D 
Explanation:  One communication technique to reduce misunderstanding and miscommunication is active listening. A well run agile project necessitates both good listeners and communicators, active listening helps work towards both of these necessities. The basics of active listening include: 1) Being present and focusing your attention on the speaker. 2) Taking notes instead of interrupting. 3) Paraphrasing to confirm and review what you have heard. 4) Summarizing the conversation once it has concluded for posterity. Using open ended questions, good body language, and silence can help improve listening skills. [Coaching Agile Teams. Lyssa Adkins.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]

14. Ryan as project leader, has been discussing the importance of 'stakeholder management' with his team. Why is stakeholder management so important?
A. An agile project relies on the monitoring and controlling of stakeholders.
B. An agile project relies on active participation from its stakeholders.
C. An agile project relies on the absence of participation of stakeholders.
D. An agile project relies on the intermittent participation of stakeholders.
Answer: B 
Explanation:  Stakeholder management is a growing topic area within strategic management that brings awareness to the importance of managing stakeholders (i.e., facilitating active participation of stakeholders and fostering a strong collaborative environment) for a project's success. Stakeholder management is typically defined in the context of guiding principles and values. R. E. Freeman's 'Managing for Stakeholders' includes 10 principles: 1) Stakeholder interests need to go together over time. 2) We need a philosophy of volunteerism – to engage stakeholders and manage relationships ourselves rather than leave it to government. 3) We need to find solutions to issues that satisfy multiple stakeholders simultaneously. 4) Everything that we do serves stakeholders. We never trade off the interests of one versus the other continuously over time. 5) We act with purpose that fulfills our commitment to stakeholders. We act with aspiration towards fulfilling our dreams and theirs. 6) We need intensive communication and dialogue with stakeholders – not just those who are friendly. 7)Stakeholders consist of real people with names and faces and children. They are complex. 8)We need to generalize the marketing approach. 9) We engage with both primary and secondary stakeholders. 10) We constantly monitor and redesign processes to make them better serve our stakeholders. Because stakeholder involvement is critical for the success of a project, where projects without active participation from stakeholders are prone to failure, stakeholder management should be a topic that every agile team knows well. [The Art of Agile Development. James Shore.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]

15. Which of the following is the best definition of 'feedback?'
A. A maturing process where future innovation is taken into consideration.
B. A dynamic process where past information influences the future behavior of the same process.
C. An evolving process where past information is disregarded.
D. A static process where future information stagnates the previous behavior of the same process.
Answer: B 
Explanation:  There are several feedback techniques - techniques that facilitate constructive criticism to improve product value and quality - built into the agile process. In the classic definition, feedback is a dynamic process where past information influences the behavior of the same process in the future. Agile feedback techniques include prototyping, simulation, demonstration, evaluations, pair programming, unit testing, continuous integration, daily stand-up meetings, sprint planning. Because agile prides itself on a transparent and collaborative environment, feedback is essentially ubiquitous. [Agile Retrospectives: Making Good Teams Great. Esther Derby, Diana Larsen, Ken Schwaber.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]

1. What is the ideal team member location in the agile framework?
A. Distributed
B. Isolation
C. Collocation
D. Separation
Answer: C 
Explanation: A high-performance agile team is one that is ideally collocated for osmotic communication and face-to-face interaction. However, collocation isn't always feasible in today's multinational environment. For distributed teams, several practices are available to provide the best form of effective communication in the absence of being collocated: team intranet sites, virtual team rooms, and video conferencing over e-mail when possible. Geographic separation, especially on a world-wide scale, causes the team to consider language and cultural differences, and time zone differences. [The Art of Agile Development. James Shore.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 2]

2. How is continuous improvement built into the agile framework?
A. Through strict adherence to the agile project standards defined at the beginning of a project.
B. Through the use of overtime to meet deadlines earlier than planned.
C. Through demonstrating a working product only at the end of a release.
D. Through listening and responding to customer feedback after each iteration.
Answer: D 
Explanation: Agile project management places strong emphasis on 'continuous improvement.' Continuous improvement processes are built into the agile methodology, from customers providing feedback after each iteration to the team reserving time to reflect on its performance through retrospectives after each iteration. Ongoing unit and integration testing and keeping up with technological/industry developments also play a part in the continuous improvement process. Continuous improvement is also a key principle in the lean methodology, where a focus of removing waste from the value stream is held. [The Art of Agile Development. James Shore.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 2]

3. Which framework is adapted from the unified process (UP) for use in agile?
A. Agile unified process (AUP)
B. Extreme unified process (EUP)
C. Simple unified process (SUP)
D. Adapted unified process (AdUP)
Answer: A 
Explanation: Agile Unified Process (AUP) is a simplified version of the Unified Process, or UP (UP itself is a more detailed framework for iterative and incremental software development). AUP simplifies UP for the agile framework. AUP projects use four phases: 1) inception, 2) elaboration, 3) construction, and 4) transition. At the end of each short iteration, the team delivers a working product. [Agile Software Development: The Cooperative Game - 2nd Edition. Alistair Cockburn.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 2]

4. Sarah is a scrum master for an agile project. She practices using open-ended questions with her team to promote idea generation. The use of open ended questions is a…
A. Facilitation method
B. Crystal method
C. Passive listening method
D. Dynamic product development method (DPDM)
Answer: A 
Explanation: As a project leader or scrum master, effective facilitation methods are critical for building a high-performance and motivated team. Facilitation of meetings, discussions, demonstrations, etc., is a constant on an agile project. Some general facilitation methods include: using a small number of people for brainstorming events; hosting events in a non-threatening/comfortable environment; having an agenda that is shared with the group ahead of time; using open-ended questions instead of closed-ended questions; including a diverse representation to gain a broader perspective of the topic. [Agile Retrospectives: Making Good Teams Great. Esther Derby, Diana Larsen, Ken Schwaber.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 2]

5. What is the difference between aspirational and mandatory standards, as referred to in the PMI Code?
A. Aspirational standards are not mandatory but good practice and encouraged.
B. Aspirational standards are backed by federal law and mandatory backed by state and local law.
C. Aspirational standards are enforced by state law and mandatory standards are backed by federal law.
D. Both are compulsory standards and backed by law.
Answer: A 
Explanation: Aspirational standards are standards that every professional should strive to uphold, but are not compulsory. Mandatory standards are required and often backed by law. [PMI Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct. Project Management Institute.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 2]

6. Becky, as project leader, intends on building a high-performance team. What is a practice she should follow to build a high-performance team?
A. Using overtime to incentivize the team to delivery early
B. Building in pressure
C. Empowering the customer
D. Having the right team members (i.e., a cross-functional team)
Answer: D 
Explanation: Building a high-performance team is critical to any project's success. A high performance team has the right team members, is empowered, has built trust, works at a sustainable pace, has consistently high velocity/productivity, takes regular time for reflection to review work, has a team lead that removes any obstacles and provides mentoring and coaching, is self-organized and self-disciplined, and is collocated. Several management techniques can be used to build or foster a high-performance team environment, some techniques include: removing obstacles that slow down a team's performance, having high expectations of team performance, and coaching and mentoring the team to achieve its best performance. [Coaching Agile Teams. Lyssa Adkins.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 2]

7. What agile artifact outlines the project's vision?
A. Kanban board
B. Business case
C. Product backlog
D. Scope document
Answer: B 
Explanation: Business case development is an important initial step in agile project management. The business case is a concise document that outlines the project's vision, goals, strategies for achieving goals, milestones, required investment and expected return/payback. A business case articulates the why and how a project will deliver value to a customer. [Lean-Agile Software Development: Achieving Enterprise Agility. Alan Shalloway, Guy Beaver, James R. Trott.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 2]

8. What is Cohn's definition of product knowledge?
A. Intrinsic knowledge of the product domain and industry
B. Knowledge about what the threshold features are about a product.
C. Extrinsic knowledge of the product domain and industry
D. Knowledge about what features will or will not be developed in a project
Answer: D 
Explanation: Cohn's definition of product knowledge is knowledge about what features will or will not be developed in a project. [User Stories Applied: For Agile Software Development. Mike Cohn.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 2]

9. Select a common agile framework/methodology.
A. Sprint
B. Scrum
C. LP
D. PMI
Answer: B 
Explanation: Common frameworks or methodologies used within agile include: scrum, extreme programming (XP), lean software development, crystal, feature driven development (FDD), dynamic systems development method (DSDM), agile unified process (AUP). [Agile Software Development: The Cooperative Game – 2nd Edition. Alistair Cockburn.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 2]

10. Which of the following best describes the crystal framework?
A. A technical approach that can be used in the agile framework that is a family of methodologies for flexible and lightweight software development.
B. A technical approach that can be used in the agile framework that focuses on simple design and constant testing.
C. A technical approach that can be used in the agile framework that focuses on the elimination of waste and amplification of learning.
D. A technical approach that can be used in the agile framework that focuses on paired programming and integrated testing.

Answer: A 
Explanation: Crystal is a family of methodologies for a flexible and lightweight approach to software development. The family of methodologies is color coded to differentiate its members (e.g., clear, yellow, orange, red.) The color chosen depends on the level of effort required. On one end of the spectrum is crystal clear, which is for smaller efforts, while crystal red is for larger efforts. Regardless of color, the crystal framework is cyclical and has three fundamental processes: chartering, delivery cycles, and wrap-up. Crystal chartering includes building the team, doing an Exploratory 360, defining standards of practice for the team, and building the project plan. In the delivery cycle, the crystal team iteratively develops, integrates, tests, and releases the product in iterations that last from one week to two months. Like other agile frameworks, crystal includes collaborative events, like stand-up meetings and reflective improvement workshops. In wrap-up the team concludes the project and holds a completion ritual where the team reflects on the entire project. [Agile Software Development: The Cooperative Game – 2nd Edition. Alistair Cockburn.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 2]

11. What is the process called when a team constructively criticizes its performance for the purpose of improving performance going forward?
A. Reflection
B. Refactoring
C. Returning
D. Reimaging
Answer: A 
Explanation: During reflection or retrospectives, an agile team reserves time to reflect on the work it has completed with the objective of continuous improvement. In these self-assessment/team-assessment events, topics can include: lessons learned from successes and failures; team standards that worked, failed, or were not properly followed; and other areas of improvement. [Agile Retrospectives: Making Good Teams Great. Esther Derby, Diana Larsen, Ken Schwaber.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 2]

12. Which agile framework emphasizes a heavy focus on proving the 'fitness' or marketability of a product (i.e., has a strong business emphasis)?
A. Static systems development method (SSDM)
B. Extreme systems development method (XSDM)
C. Dynamic systems development method (DSDM)
D. Dynamic product development method (DPDM)
Answer: C 
Explanation: Dynamic Systems Development Method (DSDM) is a structured framework that emphasizes a business perspective with a heavy focus on proving the 'fitness' or marketability. Similar to scrum, DSDM has three major phases: initiating project activities, project life cycle activities, and closing project activities (i.e., similar to scrum's pre-game, game, post-game). The project life cycle has five stages: feasibility study, business study, functional model iteration, design and build iteration, and implementation. [Agile Software Development: The Cooperative Game – 2nd Edition. Alistair Cockburn.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 2]

13. Which software development framework stresses the use of 'metaphor' to describe concepts?
A. Ultra programming (UP)
B. Paired programming (PP)
C. Peer perfect programming (3P)
D. Extreme programming (XP)
Answer: D 
Explanation: Extreme programming (XP) is a programmer-centric agile framework that focuses on small, ongoing releases. XP highlights several principles: pair programming, sustainable pace, ongoing automated testing, effective communication, simplicity, feedback, courage, collective ownership, continuous integration, energized work, shared workspaces, on-site customer representation, and the use of metaphor to describe concepts. [Agile Software Development: The Cooperative Game – 2nd Edition. Alistair Cockburn.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 2]

14. Which software development framework used in agile uses a prescriptive model where the development process is planned, managed, and tracked by feature?
A. Acceptance test driven development (ATDD)
B. Test driven development (TDD)
C. Feature driven development (FDD)
D. Defect driven development (3D)
Answer: C 
Explanation: Feature driven development (FDD) uses a prescriptive model where the software development process is planned, managed, and tracked from the perspective of individual software features. FDD uses short iterations of two weeks or less to develop a set amount of features. The five step FDD process is: 1. Develop overall model; 2. Create the features list; 3. Plan by feature; 4. Design by feature; 5 Build by feature. [Agile Software Development: The Cooperative Game – 2nd Edition. Alistair Cockburn.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 2]

15. How do high-performance teams approach conflict?
A. Know that conflict is inevitable and approach conflict with an open mind knowing that it can manage conflict itself.
B. Take an anonymous vote among team members to identify which team members should leave the project.
C. Avoid talking about or dealing with conflict, knowing that that all problems will eventually pass.
D. Know that all conflict is completely self-imposed and the best course of action is to ignore conflict until it goes away.
Answer: A 
Explanation: High-performance teams differ from low-performance teams with how they deal with conflict. Conflict is inevitable even for the most experienced agile team. The difference is that high-performance teams approach conflict with an open mind and as self-organizing often navigate and resolve conflict organically. [Coaching Agile Teams. Lyssa Adkins.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 2]

1. What term is often used to describe complex adaptive systems (CAS)?
A. Chaordic
B. Entropic
C. Facile
D. Static
Answer: A 
Explanation: A complex adaptive system, or CAS, is a system composed of interacting, adaptive agents or components. The term is used in agile to remind practitioners that the development of a product is adaptive in that previous interactions, events, decisions influence future behavior. The term chaordic (a made up word blending chaotic and order) is sometimes used when describing CASs. Literature points to three key characteristics of chaordic projects: alignment and cooperation, emergence and self-organization, and learning and adaptation. [Agile Project Management: Creating Innovative Products – 2nd Edition. Jim Highsmith.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 3]

2. Mark's agile team is geographically dispersed throughout the world. What is one factor the team should consider when conducting its business?
A. Whether or not to demonstrate the product at the end of each iteration.
B. Whether or not to have daily stand-up meetings.
C. Whether or not to consider time zone differences when scheduling meetings.
D. Whether or not to perform continuous testing and integration.
Answer: C 
Explanation: A high-performance agile team is one that is ideally collocated for osmotic communication and face-to-face interaction. However, collocation isn't always feasible in today's multinational environment. For distributed teams, several practices are available to provide the best form of effective communication in the absence of being collocated: team intranet sites, virtual team rooms, and video conferencing over e-mail when possible. Geographic separation, especially on a world-wide scale, causes the team to consider language and cultural differences, and time zone differences. [Agile Software Development: The Cooperative Game – 2nd Edition. Alistair Cockburn.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 3]

3. When an agile team authors documents to conform with local or federal regulations it is known as?
A. Risk-aversion compliance
B. Mandatory compliance
C. Documentation compliance
D. Regulatory compliance
Answer: D 
Explanation: Although in agile project management, it is generally practiced to generate minimal documentation to support the project, some specific documents, like those required by regulatory bodies need to be created to comply with local and federal law. [Agile Project Management: Creating Innovative Products – 2nd Edition. Jim Highsmith.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 3]

4. When a non-agile company migrates to an agile framework what is often the most challenging task?
A. Changing company culture
B. Changing communication styles from top-down to face-to-face
C. Changing the mindset from following rigid plans to adapting to change
D. Changing project status meetings to daily stand-ups
Answer: A 
Explanation: Changing company culture is typically the most difficult when migrating to an agile framework. [The Art of Agile Development. James Shore.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 3]

5. Describe the type of organizational compliance an agile team upholds itself to when hired by an independent organization.
A. The agile team ignores the organization's code of ethics and conduct.
B. The agile team complies with the organization's code of ethics and conduct.
C. The agile team follows its own code of ethics and conduct.
D. The agile team chooses what to comply with of the organization's code of ethics and conduct.
Answer: B 
Explanation: Compliance with a company's code of ethics and professional conduct is standard practice in agile. [PMI Agile Community of Practice Community Charter. Project Management Institute.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 3]

6. Ron is setting up control limits using a Shewhart control chart for his agile project. What control limit is typically used on a Shewhart control chart?
A. Six-sigma
B. One-sigma
C. Three-sigma
D. Five-sigma
Answer: C 
Explanation: Control limits - those which set an objective range to indicate whether a process is controlled or stabilized or defect free (e.g., within three sigmas of the mean) - may be used in an agile project. Generally, a control limit of three-sigma (s) is used on a Shewhart control chart. A sigma refers to one standard deviation. So three sigmas indicates a limit three standard deviations away from the mean in both the positive and negative direction. This applies to normal data, where a normal distribution curve has been obtained. [Lean-Agile Software Development: Achieving Enterprise Agility. Alan Shalloway, Guy Beaver, James R. Trott.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 3]

7. Which agile framework uses an Exploratory 360 in its formal chartering process?
A. AUP
B. DSDM
C. Crystal
D. XP
Answer: C 
Explanation: Crystal is a family of methodologies for a flexible and lightweight approach to software development. The family of methodologies is color coded to differentiate its members (e.g., clear, yellow, orange, red.) The color chosen depends on the level of effort required. On one end of the spectrum is crystal clear, which is for smaller efforts, while crystal red is for larger efforts. Regardless of color, the crystal framework is cyclical and has three fundamental processes: chartering, delivery cycles, and wrap-up. Crystal chartering includes building the team, doing an Exploratory 360, defining standards of practice for the team, and building the project plan. In the delivery cycle, the crystal team iteratively develops, integrates, tests, and releases the product in iterations that last from one week to two months. Like other agile frameworks, crystal includes collaborative events, like stand-up meetings and reflective improvement workshops. In wrap-up the team concludes the project and holds a completion ritual where the team reflects on the entire project. [Agile Software Development: The Cooperative Game – 2nd Edition. Alistair Cockburn.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 3]

8. What does the earned value management (EVM) accounting variable 'CPI' measure?
A. The cost performance index is a ratio of earned value over actual cost.
B. The cost performance indicator is a ratio of expected value over actual cost.
C. The cost performance index is a ratio of actual cost over earned value.
D. The cost performance indicator is a ratio of actualized cost over expected value.
Answer: A 
Explanation: EVM or earned value management is a management technique used to evaluate project performance with respect to cost and schedule. EVM relies on other common financial metrics like Budget At Completion (BAC), Actual Cost (AC), Planned Value (PV), Earned Value (EV), Cost Variance (CV), Schedule Variance (SV), Cost Performance Index (CPI), and Schedule Performance Index (SPI). CV and SV can be converted into performance indicators of CPI and SPI, respectively, and tracked and charted to show progress over time. BAC is the total project budget. AC is the actual cost incurred to date. PV is the planned value of work at a given time in a project; you can calculate it by multiplying the BAC by the ratio of current week/scheduled weeks (e.g., 5 weeks into a 15 week $15,000 project = $5,000 PV). EV is value of work actually completed or earned (e.g., you have completed 50% of the project by week 5 of a 15 week $15,000 project = $7,500 EV). CV is the difference between what a project has earned to date and cost to date (i.e., CV = EV - AC). SV is the difference between what a project has earned to date and what it was planned to earn to date (i.e., SV = EV - PV). CPI is a ratio that expresses cost performance. CPI = EV/AC. If CPI > 1, the project is earning more than spending; and if CPI 1, the project is ahead of schedule and if SPI < 1, the project is behind schedule. [Agile Estimating and Planning. Mike Cohn.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 3]

9. Which agile framework emphasizes the practice of using a 40-hour work week?
A. XP
B. Scrum
C. Agile unified process (AUP)
D. DSDM
Answer: A 
Explanation: Extreme Programming (XP) uses the following practices: pair programming, collective ownership, continuous integration, 40-hour week, on-site customer, coding standards, open workspace, and team rules [Agile Software Development: The Cooperative Game – 2nd Edition. Alistair Cockburn.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 3]

10. Which software development framework has a development process that is planned, managed, and tracked by feature?
A. Acceptance test driven development (ATDD)
B. Defect driven development (3D)
C. Test driven development (TDD)
D. Feature driven development (FDD)
Answer: D 
Explanation: Feature driven development (FDD) uses a prescriptive model where the software development process is planned, managed, and tracked from the perspective of individual software features. FDD uses short iterations of two weeks or less to develop a set amount of features. The five step FDD process is: 1. Develop overall model; 2. Create the features list; 3. Plan by feature; 4. Design by feature; 5 Build by feature. [Agile Software Development: The Cooperative Game – 2nd Edition. Alistair Cockburn.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 3]

11. Which type of contract is the least suitable for the agile development method?
A. Time and materials
B. Fixed-price
C. Cost-reimbursable
D. Not-to-exceed with fixed-fee
Answer: B 
Explanation: Fixed-price contracts, although typical of traditional projects where scope is defined ahead of time, are not well suited for agile. When scope is fixed it can deter a team from exploring out-of-scope solutions that may add value to the product. Contracts suited for agile include: general service for the initial phase with fixed-price contracts for successive phases; cost-reimbursable/time and materials; not-to-exceed with fixed-fee; and a combination with incentives. [Agile Software Development: The Cooperative Game – 2nd Edition. Alistair Cockburn.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 3]

12. What popular agile game is used to estimate the relative effort of developing user stories?
A. Planning poker
B. Story point poker
C. Point poker
D. Poker
Answer: A 
Explanation: Planning poker is a popular agile 'game' used to estimate the relative work effort (story points) of developing user stories. [Coaching Agile Teams. Lyssa Adkins.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 3]
13. What does the earned value management (EVM) accounting variable 'SPI' measure?
A. The schedule performance index is a ratio of expected value over planned value.
B. The schedule performance index is a ratio of earned value over planned value.
C. The schedule performance index is a ratio of planned value over earned value.
D. The schedule performance index is a ratio of planned value over expected value.
Answer: B 
Explanation: Schedule Performance Index (SPI). SPI is a ratio that expresses schedule performance. SPI = EV / PV. If SPI > 1, the project is ahead of schedule and if SPI < 1, the project is behind schedule. AC is the actual cost the project has incurred to date. [Agile Estimating and Planning. Mike Cohn.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 3]

14. Which agile framework emphasizes the always having a product that you could potentially ship/release?
A. XP
B. FDD
C. Crystal
D. Scrum
Answer: D 
Explanation: Scrum emphasizes, in part, the following principles: always have a product you can theoretically ship, speak a common language, and continuously test the product as you build it. [Agile Project Management with Scrum. Ken Schwaber.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 3]

15. In which agile framework is the customer referred to as the "product owner?"
A. Extreme programming (XP)
B. Agile unified process (AUP)
C. Scrum
D. Lean software development
Answer: C 
Explanation: The core roles in scrum are the product owner, scrum master and development team. [Agile Project Management with Scrum. Ken Schwaber.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 3]

1. In release planning, where does an agile team typically record acceptance criteria for a user story?
A. On the product data sheet
B. On the back of user story cards
C. In the user story Excel database
D. On the user story acceptance criteria information radiator
Answer: B 
Explanation: During release planning, acceptance criteria are typically recorded on the backs of user story cards. Agile team testers will use this acceptance criteria in their verification tests. [The Art of Agile Development. James Shore.] [Planning, monitoring, and adapting]

2. Yvonne and her agile team have just been hired by an independent company to develop a cutting edge software project. Yvonne and her team should comply with the organization's code of ethics and conduct. What is this type of compliance known as?
A. Incentive compliance
B. Organization compliance
C. Facility compliance
D. Commissioned compliance
Answer: B 
Explanation: Compliance with a company's code of ethics and professional conduct is standard practice in agile. [PMI Agile Community of Practice Community Charter. Project Management Institute.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 3]

3. Feedback techniques are ubiquitous in agile projects. Select the response which lists a feedback technique.
A. Iteration
B. Increment
C. Sprint
D. Demo / demonstration
Answer: D 
Explanation: There are several feedback techniques - techniques that facilitate constructive criticism to improve product value and quality - built into the agile process. In the classic definition, feedback is a dynamic process where past information influences the behavior of the same process in the future. Agile feedback techniques include prototyping, simulation, demonstration, evaluations, pair programming, unit testing, continuous integration, daily stand-up meetings, sprint planning. Because agile prides itself on a transparent and collaborative environment, feedback is essentially ubiquitous. [Agile Retrospectives: Making Good Teams Great. Esther Derby, Diana Larsen, Ken Schwaber.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]

4. Ernie knows that feedback techniques are ubiquitous in agile projects. Which of the following lists an agile 'feedback technique for product?'
A. Iteration
B. Release planning
C. Increment
D. Sprint
Answer: B 
Explanation: There are several feedback techniques - techniques that facilitate constructive criticism to improve product value and quality - built into the agile process. In the classic definition, feedback is a dynamic process where past information influences the behavior of the same process in the future. Agile feedback techniques include prototyping, simulation, demonstration, evaluations, pair programming, unit testing, continuous integration, daily stand-up meetings, sprint planning. Because agile prides itself on a transparent and collaborative environment, feedback is essentially ubiquitous. [Agile Retrospectives: Making Good Teams Great. Esther Derby, Diana Larsen, Ken Schwaber.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]

5. Select a technique that promotes agile 'knowledge sharing.'
A. Incremental planning
B. Integer planning
C. Iteration planning
D. Interval planning
Answer: C 
Explanation: In agile, effective 'knowledge sharing' is a critical factor for success. It involves the near real time communication of key information among all team members and stakeholders. To promote knowledge sharing, agile uses standard practices built into its process, such as using generalized specialists/cross functional teams, self-organizing and self-disciplined teams, collocation, daily stand-up meetings, iteration/sprint planning, release planning, pair programming and pair rotation, project retrospectives/reflection, and on-site customer support. And, of course, the sixth principle of Agile is " The most efficient and effective method of conveying information to and within a development team is face-to-face conversation." In this sense, Agile prefers and encourages collocation for all stakeholders and team members for the simple fact that face-to-face conversation is the best method of communication and, in turn, effective knowledge sharing. [Becoming Agile: …in an imperfect world. Greg Smith, Ahmed Sidky.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]

6. When agile team members make decisions collaboratively and take ownership of a product, what is the decision model known as?
A. Command
B. Managerial
C. Participatory
D. Individual
Answer: C 
Explanation: To build trust among the team, agile believes heavily in participatory decision models where team members collaborate to make decisions. Although a team leader or scrum master will need to make some decisions individually, many decisions can be made by the team collectively. These agile principles are also known as collective ownership, self-organization, and self-discipline. In collective ownership, the team members are equally responsible for project results and are empowered to participate in decision making and problem solving processes. [Agile Retrospectives: Making Good Teams Great. Esther Derby, Diana Larsen, Ken Schwaber.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 2]

7. Lisa is describing the four Agile Manifesto values to her co-workers. Of the following, which response lists a secondary value?
A. Responding to change
B. Comprehensive documentation
C. Working software
D. Individuals and interactions
Answer: B 
Explanation: The Agile Manifesto defines four values. The four values list primary values and secondary values, with primary values superseding secondary values. The values are 1) individuals and interactions over processes and tools, 2) working software over comprehensive documentation, 3) customer collaboration over contract negotiation, and 4) responding to change over following a plan. [Manifesto for Agile Software Development. Agile Alliance.] [Knowledge and Skills: Level 1]

8. Wendy has been given a deck of cards for an upcoming agile planning meeting. In the meeting Wendy is to use the cards for estimating the work effort involved with developing user stories. What agile estimation technique is Wendy applying?
A. Planning poker
B. Infinity estimation
C. Poker affinity
D. Affinity estimation
Answer: A 
Explanation: Planning poker is based upon the wideband Delphi estimation technique. It is a consensus-based technique for estimating effort. Sometimes called scrum poker, it is a technique for a relative estimation of effort, typically in story points, to develop a user story. At a planning poker meeting, each estimator is given an identical deck of planning poker cards with a wide range of values. The Fibonacci sequence is often used for values for planning poker (i.e., 0, 1, 1, 2, 3, 5,8,etc.); another common sequence is (question mark, 0, 1/2, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 20, 40, and 100). A planning poker meeting works as follows: 1) a moderator, not estimating, facilitates the meeting. 2) the product owner/manager provides a short overview of the user story and answers clarifying questions posed by the developers. Typically the product owner does not vote. 3) Each estimator selects an estimate of work effort by selecting a card, 4) Once everyone has selected a card, everyone overturns their card concurrently, 5) Estimators with high and low estimates are given a chance to defend positions. 6) The process repeats until there is consensus. The developer who owns the user story is typically given higher credence. [Agile Estimating and Planning. Mike Cohn.] [Agile estimation]

9. Peter is estimating the relative work effort of user stories at a meeting. The meeting is taking place in a large conference room with a Fibonacci scale attached to the wall. A facilitator asks the participants to size their user stories by attaching them to appropriate places on the scale using their best judgment. This estimation is performed mostly in silence. What type of estimation technique is Peter using?
A. Poker affinity
B. Planning poker
C. Infinity estimation
D. Affinity estimating
Answer: D 
Explanation: Affinity estimating is a method to predict the work effort, typically in story points, of developing a user story. It is particularly useful for large product backlogs. Although several methods exist, the basic affinity estimating model involves sizing user stories on a scale from small to large. The scale can be a Fibonacci sequence or t-shirt sizes and is typically taped to a wall in a large conference room. Participants then attach their user stories to the wall as estimates. It is often done in silence and has several iterations until the user stories have been estimated. [The Art of Agile Development. James Shore.] [Agile estimation]

10. Select the best adjective that describes an agile team's project and quality standards.
A. Stiff
B. Inflexible
C. Unbending
D. Evolving
Answer: D 
Explanation: All agile efforts have project and quality standards that the
